_documentation/en/voice/sip/configure/avaya-sbce.md, before:

---
title: Avaya SBCe
description: How to set up Vonage SIP with Avaya SBCe
---

# Nexmo SIP Trunking Configuration Guide

## Avaya Aura 6.3.18.0.631804 With Avaya SBCe 6.3.7-01-12611

### June 2017

## Contents

- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2. SIP Trunking Network Components](#2-sip-trunking-network-components)
   - 2.1 Network Components
- [3. Features](#3-features)
      - 3.1.1 Features Supported
      - 3.1.2 Features Not Supported by PBX
      - 3.1.3 Caveats and Limitations
- [4. Configuration](#4-configuration)
   - 4.1 IP Address Worksheet
   - 4.2 Configuring Avaya Aura Communication Manager
      - 4.2.1 Licenses
      - 4.2.2 System Features
      - 4.2.3 IP Node Names
      - 4.2.4 IP Codecs
      - 4.2.5 IP Network Region
      - 4.2.6 Signaling Group
      - 4.2.7 Trunk Group
      - 4.2.8 Route Pattern
      - 4.2.9 Dialing Pattern and Feature Code
      - 4.2.10 Call Routing
      - 4.2.11 Caller ID
      - 4.2.12 Avaya Aura Extensions
   - 4.3 Configuring Avaya Aura Session Manager
      - 4.3.1 Add Adaptations
      - 4.3.2 SIP Entities
      - 4.3.3 Routing Policies
      - 4.3.4 Dial Patterns
      - 4.3.5 SIP Extension
   - 4.4 Configuring Avaya Session Border Controller for Enterprise
      - 4.4.1 Global Profile
      - 4.4.2 Domain Policies
      - 4.4.3 Device Specific Settings
- 4.5 Avaya Modular Messaging
- 4.6 Nexmo Configuration
   - 4.6.1 Configure Numbers in Nexmo Account


## 1. Introduction

This document is intended for the SIP trunk customer’s technical staff and Value Added Retailer
(VAR) having installation and operational responsibilities. This configuration guide provides steps
for configuring Avaya Aura 6.3.18.0.631804 and Avaya SBCe 6.3.7-01-12611 to Nexmo SIP
Trunking services.

## 2. SIP Trunking Network Components

The network for the SIP trunk reference configuration is illustrated below and is representative of
an Avaya Aura and Avaya SBCe configuration to Nexmo SIP trunking.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-73.png)

### 2.1 Network Components

| Component      | Version                | Comments                                    |
| -------------- | ---------------------- |---------------------------------------------|
| Avaya Aura     | 6.3.18.0.631804        |                                             |
| Avaya SBCe     | 6.3.7-01-12611         |                                             |
| Avaya MM       | 5.2-11.0               | Avaya Voicemail                             |
| Avaya 9630G    | `SIP96xx_2_6_14.5.bin` | Avaya Phone                                 |
| Cisco IP Phone | **Model**: `CP-7965` **App Load ID**: `jar45sccp.9-4-2TH1-1.sbn` **Boot Load ID**: `tnp65.9-3-1-CR17.bin`    | This Cisco IP Phone is the PSTN test device |


## 3. Features

### 3.1.1 Features Supported

* Incoming and outgoing off-net calls using G711ULAW & G711ALAW voice codecs
* Calling Line (number) Identification Presentation
* Calling Line (number) Identification Restriction
* Call hold and resume
* Call transfer (unattended and attended)
* Call Conference
* Call forward (all, no answer)
* DTMF relay both directions (RFC2833)
* Media flow-through on Avaya SBCe

### 3.1.2 Features Not Supported by PBX

* None

### 3.1.3 Caveats and Limitations

* Session refresh is always done by Avaya Aura. The issue does not impact the calls.

## 4. Configuration

### 4.1 IP Address Worksheet

The specific values listed in the table below and in subsequent sections are used in the lab
configuration described in this document, and are for **illustrative purposes only**. The customer
must obtain and use the values for your deployment.

### Table 1 – IP Addresses

| Component         | Lab Value         | Customer Value
| ----------------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
| **Avaya SBCe**                                          |
| LAN IP Address    | `10.70.4.13`      |                 |
| LAN Subnet Mask   | `255.255.255.0`   |                 |
| WAN IP Address    | `192.xx.xx.XXX`   |                 |
| WAN Subnet Mask   | `255.255.255.128` |                 |
| **Avaya Aura**                                          |
| System IP Address | `10.70.4.3`       |                 |

### 4.2 Configuring Avaya Aura Communication Manager

This section describes the Avaya Aura Communication Manager configuration necessary to
support connectivity to Avaya SBCe. A SIP trunk is established between Communication
Manager and Session Manager for use by signaling traffic to and from Nexmo via Avaya SBCe. It
is assumed that the general installation of Communication Manager, the Avaya G430 Media
Gateway and Session Manager has been previously completed.

The Avaya Aura Communication Manager configuration was performed using System Access
Terminal (SAT) via Putty.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-1.png)

#### 4.2.1 Licenses

In order to connect to Nexmo, Avaya Aura Communication Manager needs to have enough SIP
trunk licenses. Use the `display system-parameters customer-options` command to verify the
available SIP Trunk licenses

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-2.png)

#### 4.2.2 System Features

Use the `change system-parameters features` command and ensure Trunk to Trunk Transfer is set
to all

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-3.png)

#### 4.2.3 IP Node Names

Use the `display node-names IP` command to verify that node names have been properly defined
for Communication Manager (`procr`) and Session Manager (AASM in this test). These node
names will be needed for configuring the Signaling Group later.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-4.png)

#### 4.2.4 IP Codecs

The change `ip-codec-set` command is used for assigning the proper codecs. For this setup, `ip-codec-set 1` is used.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-5.png)

#### 4.2.5 IP Network Region

For this test, IP Network region 3 was created using the change `ip-network-region 1` command

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-6.png)

#### 4.2.6 Signaling Group

Use the `add signaling-group x` command to create a signaling group 2 between Communication
Manager and Session Manager for SIP trunk calls.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-7.png)

#### 4.2.7 Trunk Group

Use the `add trunk-group x` command to create trunk groups for the associated signaling group,
trunk group 2 is associated with Signaling group 2 for SIP trunk between CM and SM.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-8.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-9.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-10.png)

* The Numbering Format is set to Public. Outbound calls to Nexmo uses this trunk and
uses the Public Numbering table to send the calling party number.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-11.png)

* Send Diversion Header is enabled to send the diversion information for voice mail.

#### 4.2.8 Route Pattern

Use the `change route-pattern 2` command to add routing preference for SIP trunk to Session
Manager.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-12.png)

* This route is associated with trunk group 2

#### 4.2.9 Dialing Pattern and Feature Code

Use the `change dialplan` analysis and `change feature-access-codes` commands

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-13.png)

* ARS access code is set to 9

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-14.png)

#### 4.2.10 Call Routing

##### 4.2.10.1 Outbound Calls

The `change ars analysis` command is used for outbound PSTN call routing. 121 is shown as an
example setup for this test.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-15.png)

* Route pattern 2 is used for PSTN call routing.

#### 4.2.11 Caller ID

The `change private-numbering 2` command is used to assign the Caller ID for 4 digit Avaya Aura
extensions

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-16.png)

* Trunk group number 2 is used.

#### 4.2.12 Avaya Aura Extensions

Create a SIP extension as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-17.png)

* Enter station extension.
* Application: Type `OPS`
* Trunk Selection: Type `aar`

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-18.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-19.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-20.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-21.png)

### 4.3 Configuring Avaya Aura Session Manager

The Avaya Aura Session Manager configuration utilizes Avaya Aura System Manager. The Avaya
Aura System Manager Web login screen is accessed via `https://IP Address/FQDN`. Use admin
as User ID and input associated password, and then click Log on. It is assumed that the
Domain, Location and Endpoint for Session Manager have been previously configured.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-22.png)

Navigate to **Home > Elements > Routing**


#### 4.3.1 Add Adaptations

Modifications to the SIP messaging within the Session Manager can be made in the Adaptions
module. The idea here is to create an adaptation entity, identified by its Name, and then assign it
to a SIP Entity.

Navigate to **Routing > Adaptations > New**

##### 4.3.1.1 Adaptation for Avaya SBCe

The following adaption rules are provisioned in the "Module parameter" field:

`fromto =true:` If set to true, then adaptation modifies `From` and `To` headers of the message.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-23.png)

* An adaptation is created under the Digit Conversion for Outgoing Calls from SM to cause
SM to insert the + sign in the From and To headers on SM-originated calls routed to
Avaya SBCe.

#### 4.3.2 SIP Entities

##### 4.3.2.1 SIP Entity for Avaya SBCe

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-25.png)

* Add the AvayaSBC Adaption created earlier, to the SIP Entity
* The link between the SM and the Avaya sBCe was configured as trusted using TCP
protocol and port 5060

##### 4.3.2.2 SIP Entity for Avaya CM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-26.png)

* The link between the Avaya SM and the CM was configured as trusted using TCP
protocol and port 5060.


##### 4.3.2.3 SIP Entity for Avaya MM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-27.png)

* The link between the Avaya SM and the Avaya MM was configured as trusted using TCP
protocol and port 5060

#### 4.3.3 Routing Policies

Navigate to **Routing > Routing Policies > New**

##### 4.3.3.1 Routing Policy to Avaya SBCe
Create a routing policy to Avaya SBCe as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-28.png)

##### 4.3.3.2 Routing Policy to Avaya CM
Create a routing policy to Avaya CM as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-29.png)

##### 4.3.3.3 Routing Policy to Avaya MM
Create a routing policy to Avaya MM as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-30.png)

#### 4.3.4 Dial Patterns

##### 4.3.4.1 Routing Policy to Avaya SBCe

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-31.png)

* Create a dial pattern to route the call to PSTN via Avaya SBCe and link the Routing
Policy to Avaya SBCe as shown above.

##### 4.3.4.2 Routing Policy to Avaya CM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-32.png)

* Create a dial pattern to route the call to Avaya Aura and link the Routing Policy to Avaya
CM as shown above

##### 4.3.4.3 Routing Policy to Avaya MM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-33.png)

* Create a dial pattern to route the call to Avaya MM and link the Routing Policy to Avaya
MM as shown above

#### 4.3.5 SIP Extension

Create a SIP user profile as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-34.png)

Navigate to **User Management> Endpoints > Manage Users**

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-35.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-36.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-37.png)

### 4.4 Configuring Avaya Session Border Controller for Enterprise

* Log into Avaya Session Border Controller for Enterprise (SBCE) web interface by typing
"https://X.X.X.X/sbc".
* Enter the assigned Username and Password
* Click Log In

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-38.png)

#### 4.4.1 Global Profile

##### 4.4.1.1 Server Interworking

Navigate to System Management > Global Profiles > Server Interworking. Create a clone named
AASM of predefined Interworking Profile `avaya-ru` as shown below.

Create a Serving Interworking profile for Avaya SM as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-39.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-40.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-41.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-42.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-43.png)

Create a Serving Interworking profile for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-44.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-45.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-46.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-47.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-48.png)

##### 4.4.1.2 Routing
Navigate to **System Management > Global Profiles > Routing**

Creating a Routing profile for Avaya Session Manager as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-49.png)

Creating a Routing profile for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-50.png)

##### 4.4.1.3 Server Configuration
Navigate to **System Management > Global Profiles > Server Configuration**

Create a Server configuration profile for Avaya Session Manager as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-51.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-52.png)

Create a Server configuration profile for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-53.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-54.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-55.png)

##### 4.4.1.4 Topology Hiding
Navigate to **System Management > Global Profiles > Topology Hiding**

Creating a Topology hiding profile for Avaya Session Manager as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-56.png)

#### 4.4.2 Domain Policies

##### 4.4.2.1 Signaling Rules
Signaling Rules define the actions to be taken (Allow, Block, Block with Response, etc.) for each
type of SIP-specific signaling request and response message.

Headers such as P-Location, P-Charging-Vector and others are sent in SIP messages from
Session Manager to the Avaya SBCe for egress to the Nexmo.

A Signaling Rule was created, to later be applied in the direction of the enterprise to block
unwanted headers coming from Session Manager from being propagated to Nexmo.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-57.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-58.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-59.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-60.png)

##### 4.4.2.2 End Point Policy Groups
End Point Policy group "Avaya SM" is created as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-61.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-62.png)

#### 4.4.3 Device Specific Settings

##### 4.4.3.1 Media Interface
Navigate to **System Management > Device Specific Settings > Media Interface**. Create
Internal and External Media Interface as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-63.png)

##### 4.4.3.2 Signaling Interface
Navigate to **System Management > Device Specific Settings > Signaling Interface**. Create
Internal and External Signaling Interface as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-64.png)

##### 4.4.3.3 End Point Flows
Navigate to **System Management > Device Specific Settings > End Point Flows**. Select the
Server Flows tab and click Add. Create a Server flow for Avaya Session Manager as shown
below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-65.png)

Select the Server Flows tab and click Add. Create a Server flow for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-66.png)

## 4.5 Avaya Modular Messaging

This section describes the steps for configuring the Avaya Modular Messaging to inter-operate
with Avaya Aura Session Manager via SIP trunking.

##### 4.5.1.1 Messaging Server
Navigate to *Messaging Administration > Networked Machines* to configure Modular Messaging
Server parameters as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-67.png)

##### 4.5.1.2 Subscriber
Navigate to **Messaging Administration > Subscriber Management**. Configure a subscriber for
the Messaging server as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-68.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-69.png)

## 4.6 Nexmo Configuration

### 4.6.1 Configure Numbers in Nexmo Account

1. Login to the Nexmo account using the credentials provided at the time of registration. A
    **Key** and **Secret** will be displayed on the dashboard and this can be used as the
    username and password for Registration SIP Trunks.

    ![](/images/sip-config/vonage-dashboard/dashboard-key-secret.png)

2. In order to provide the URL to which the call has to be routed from Nexmo, navigate to
    the **Numbers** tab
3. Click **Edit** against each number as shown below

    ![](/images/sip-config/vonage-dashboard/numbers-dashboard.png)

4. A pop-up will be displayed
5. Select the " **Forward to** " and provide the URL to which the calls route
6. Click **Update** to save the changes

    ![](/images/sip-config/vonage-dashboard/edit-number.png)

Commit message:

Add note re: Vonage/Nexmo

_documentation/en/voice/sip/configure/avaya-sbce.md, after:

---
title: Avaya SBCe
description: How to set up Vonage SIP with Avaya SBCe
---

# Vonage SIP Trunking Configuration Guide

## Avaya Aura 6.3.18.0.631804 With Avaya SBCe 6.3.7-01-12611

### June 2017

> **Note**: Parts of this guide still refer to Nexmo. Vonage acquired Nexmo in June 2016.

## Contents

- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2. SIP Trunking Network Components](#2-sip-trunking-network-components)
   - 2.1 Network Components
- [3. Features](#3-features)
      - 3.1.1 Features Supported
      - 3.1.2 Features Not Supported by PBX
      - 3.1.3 Caveats and Limitations
- [4. Configuration](#4-configuration)
   - 4.1 IP Address Worksheet
   - 4.2 Configuring Avaya Aura Communication Manager
      - 4.2.1 Licenses
      - 4.2.2 System Features
      - 4.2.3 IP Node Names
      - 4.2.4 IP Codecs
      - 4.2.5 IP Network Region
      - 4.2.6 Signaling Group
      - 4.2.7 Trunk Group
      - 4.2.8 Route Pattern
      - 4.2.9 Dialing Pattern and Feature Code
      - 4.2.10 Call Routing
      - 4.2.11 Caller ID
      - 4.2.12 Avaya Aura Extensions
   - 4.3 Configuring Avaya Aura Session Manager
      - 4.3.1 Add Adaptations
      - 4.3.2 SIP Entities
      - 4.3.3 Routing Policies
      - 4.3.4 Dial Patterns
      - 4.3.5 SIP Extension
   - 4.4 Configuring Avaya Session Border Controller for Enterprise
      - 4.4.1 Global Profile
      - 4.4.2 Domain Policies
      - 4.4.3 Device Specific Settings
- 4.5 Avaya Modular Messaging
- 4.6 Nexmo Configuration
   - 4.6.1 Configure Numbers in Nexmo Account


## 1. Introduction

This document is intended for the SIP trunk customer’s technical staff and Value Added Retailer
(VAR) having installation and operational responsibilities. This configuration guide provides steps
for configuring Avaya Aura 6.3.18.0.631804 and Avaya SBCe 6.3.7-01-12611 to Nexmo SIP
Trunking services.

## 2. SIP Trunking Network Components

The network for the SIP trunk reference configuration is illustrated below and is representative of
an Avaya Aura and Avaya SBCe configuration to Nexmo SIP trunking.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-73.png)

### 2.1 Network Components

| Component      | Version                | Comments                                    |
| -------------- | ---------------------- |---------------------------------------------|
| Avaya Aura     | 6.3.18.0.631804        |                                             |
| Avaya SBCe     | 6.3.7-01-12611         |                                             |
| Avaya MM       | 5.2-11.0               | Avaya Voicemail                             |
| Avaya 9630G    | `SIP96xx_2_6_14.5.bin` | Avaya Phone                                 |
| Cisco IP Phone | **Model**: `CP-7965` **App Load ID**: `jar45sccp.9-4-2TH1-1.sbn` **Boot Load ID**: `tnp65.9-3-1-CR17.bin`    | This Cisco IP Phone is the PSTN test device |


## 3. Features

### 3.1.1 Features Supported

* Incoming and outgoing off-net calls using G711ULAW & G711ALAW voice codecs
* Calling Line (number) Identification Presentation
* Calling Line (number) Identification Restriction
* Call hold and resume
* Call transfer (unattended and attended)
* Call Conference
* Call forward (all, no answer)
* DTMF relay both directions (RFC2833)
* Media flow-through on Avaya SBCe

### 3.1.2 Features Not Supported by PBX

* None

### 3.1.3 Caveats and Limitations

* Session refresh is always done by Avaya Aura. The issue does not impact the calls.

## 4. Configuration

### 4.1 IP Address Worksheet

The specific values listed in the table below and in subsequent sections are used in the lab
configuration described in this document, and are for **illustrative purposes only**. The customer
must obtain and use the values for your deployment.

### Table 1 – IP Addresses

| Component         | Lab Value         | Customer Value
| ----------------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
| **Avaya SBCe**                                          |
| LAN IP Address    | `10.70.4.13`      |                 |
| LAN Subnet Mask   | `255.255.255.0`   |                 |
| WAN IP Address    | `192.xx.xx.XXX`   |                 |
| WAN Subnet Mask   | `255.255.255.128` |                 |
| **Avaya Aura**                                          |
| System IP Address | `10.70.4.3`       |                 |

### 4.2 Configuring Avaya Aura Communication Manager

This section describes the Avaya Aura Communication Manager configuration necessary to
support connectivity to Avaya SBCe. A SIP trunk is established between Communication
Manager and Session Manager for use by signaling traffic to and from Nexmo via Avaya SBCe. It
is assumed that the general installation of Communication Manager, the Avaya G430 Media
Gateway and Session Manager has been previously completed.

The Avaya Aura Communication Manager configuration was performed using System Access
Terminal (SAT) via Putty.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-1.png)

#### 4.2.1 Licenses

In order to connect to Nexmo, Avaya Aura Communication Manager needs to have enough SIP
trunk licenses. Use the `display system-parameters customer-options` command to verify the
available SIP Trunk licenses

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-2.png)

#### 4.2.2 System Features

Use the `change system-parameters features` command and ensure Trunk to Trunk Transfer is set
to all

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-3.png)

#### 4.2.3 IP Node Names

Use the `display node-names IP` command to verify that node names have been properly defined
for Communication Manager (`procr`) and Session Manager (AASM in this test). These node
names will be needed for configuring the Signaling Group later.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-4.png)

#### 4.2.4 IP Codecs

The change `ip-codec-set` command is used for assigning the proper codecs. For this setup, `ip-codec-set 1` is used.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-5.png)

#### 4.2.5 IP Network Region

For this test, IP Network region 3 was created using the change `ip-network-region 1` command

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-6.png)

#### 4.2.6 Signaling Group

Use the `add signaling-group x` command to create a signaling group 2 between Communication
Manager and Session Manager for SIP trunk calls.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-7.png)

#### 4.2.7 Trunk Group

Use the `add trunk-group x` command to create trunk groups for the associated signaling group,
trunk group 2 is associated with Signaling group 2 for SIP trunk between CM and SM.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-8.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-9.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-10.png)

* The Numbering Format is set to Public. Outbound calls to Nexmo uses this trunk and
uses the Public Numbering table to send the calling party number.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-11.png)

* Send Diversion Header is enabled to send the diversion information for voice mail.

#### 4.2.8 Route Pattern

Use the `change route-pattern 2` command to add routing preference for SIP trunk to Session
Manager.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-12.png)

* This route is associated with trunk group 2

#### 4.2.9 Dialing Pattern and Feature Code

Use the `change dialplan` analysis and `change feature-access-codes` commands

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-13.png)

* ARS access code is set to 9

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-14.png)

#### 4.2.10 Call Routing

##### 4.2.10.1 Outbound Calls

The `change ars analysis` command is used for outbound PSTN call routing. 121 is shown as an
example setup for this test.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-15.png)

* Route pattern 2 is used for PSTN call routing.

#### 4.2.11 Caller ID

The `change private-numbering 2` command is used to assign the Caller ID for 4 digit Avaya Aura
extensions

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-16.png)

* Trunk group number 2 is used.

#### 4.2.12 Avaya Aura Extensions

Create a SIP extension as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-17.png)

* Enter station extension.
* Application: Type `OPS`
* Trunk Selection: Type `aar`

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-18.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-19.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-20.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-21.png)

### 4.3 Configuring Avaya Aura Session Manager

The Avaya Aura Session Manager configuration utilizes Avaya Aura System Manager. The Avaya
Aura System Manager Web login screen is accessed via `https://IP Address/FQDN`. Use admin
as User ID and input associated password, and then click Log on. It is assumed that the
Domain, Location and Endpoint for Session Manager have been previously configured.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-22.png)

Navigate to **Home > Elements > Routing**


#### 4.3.1 Add Adaptations

Modifications to the SIP messaging within the Session Manager can be made in the Adaptions
module. The idea here is to create an adaptation entity, identified by its Name, and then assign it
to a SIP Entity.

Navigate to **Routing > Adaptations > New**

##### 4.3.1.1 Adaptation for Avaya SBCe

The following adaption rules are provisioned in the "Module parameter" field:

`fromto =true:` If set to true, then adaptation modifies `From` and `To` headers of the message.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-23.png)

* An adaptation is created under the Digit Conversion for Outgoing Calls from SM to cause
SM to insert the + sign in the From and To headers on SM-originated calls routed to
Avaya SBCe.

#### 4.3.2 SIP Entities

##### 4.3.2.1 SIP Entity for Avaya SBCe

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-25.png)

* Add the AvayaSBC Adaption created earlier, to the SIP Entity
* The link between the SM and the Avaya sBCe was configured as trusted using TCP
protocol and port 5060

##### 4.3.2.2 SIP Entity for Avaya CM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-26.png)

* The link between the Avaya SM and the CM was configured as trusted using TCP
protocol and port 5060.


##### 4.3.2.3 SIP Entity for Avaya MM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-27.png)

* The link between the Avaya SM and the Avaya MM was configured as trusted using TCP
protocol and port 5060

#### 4.3.3 Routing Policies

Navigate to **Routing > Routing Policies > New**

##### 4.3.3.1 Routing Policy to Avaya SBCe
Create a routing policy to Avaya SBCe as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-28.png)

##### 4.3.3.2 Routing Policy to Avaya CM
Create a routing policy to Avaya CM as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-29.png)

##### 4.3.3.3 Routing Policy to Avaya MM
Create a routing policy to Avaya MM as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-30.png)

#### 4.3.4 Dial Patterns

##### 4.3.4.1 Routing Policy to Avaya SBCe

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-31.png)

* Create a dial pattern to route the call to PSTN via Avaya SBCe and link the Routing
Policy to Avaya SBCe as shown above.

##### 4.3.4.2 Routing Policy to Avaya CM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-32.png)

* Create a dial pattern to route the call to Avaya Aura and link the Routing Policy to Avaya
CM as shown above

##### 4.3.4.3 Routing Policy to Avaya MM

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-33.png)

* Create a dial pattern to route the call to Avaya MM and link the Routing Policy to Avaya
MM as shown above

#### 4.3.5 SIP Extension

Create a SIP user profile as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-34.png)

Navigate to **User Management> Endpoints > Manage Users**

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-35.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-36.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-37.png)

### 4.4 Configuring Avaya Session Border Controller for Enterprise

* Log into Avaya Session Border Controller for Enterprise (SBCE) web interface by typing
"https://X.X.X.X/sbc".
* Enter the assigned Username and Password
* Click Log In

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-38.png)

#### 4.4.1 Global Profile

##### 4.4.1.1 Server Interworking

Navigate to System Management > Global Profiles > Server Interworking. Create a clone named
AASM of predefined Interworking Profile `avaya-ru` as shown below.

Create a Serving Interworking profile for Avaya SM as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-39.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-40.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-41.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-42.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-43.png)

Create a Serving Interworking profile for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-44.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-45.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-46.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-47.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-48.png)

##### 4.4.1.2 Routing
Navigate to **System Management > Global Profiles > Routing**

Creating a Routing profile for Avaya Session Manager as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-49.png)

Creating a Routing profile for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-50.png)

##### 4.4.1.3 Server Configuration
Navigate to **System Management > Global Profiles > Server Configuration**

Create a Server configuration profile for Avaya Session Manager as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-51.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-52.png)

Create a Server configuration profile for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-53.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-54.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-55.png)

##### 4.4.1.4 Topology Hiding
Navigate to **System Management > Global Profiles > Topology Hiding**

Creating a Topology hiding profile for Avaya Session Manager as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-56.png)

#### 4.4.2 Domain Policies

##### 4.4.2.1 Signaling Rules
Signaling Rules define the actions to be taken (Allow, Block, Block with Response, etc.) for each
type of SIP-specific signaling request and response message.

Headers such as P-Location, P-Charging-Vector and others are sent in SIP messages from
Session Manager to the Avaya SBCe for egress to the Nexmo.

A Signaling Rule was created, to later be applied in the direction of the enterprise to block
unwanted headers coming from Session Manager from being propagated to Nexmo.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-57.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-58.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-59.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-60.png)

##### 4.4.2.2 End Point Policy Groups
End Point Policy group "Avaya SM" is created as shown below

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-61.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-62.png)

#### 4.4.3 Device Specific Settings

##### 4.4.3.1 Media Interface
Navigate to **System Management > Device Specific Settings > Media Interface**. Create
Internal and External Media Interface as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-63.png)

##### 4.4.3.2 Signaling Interface
Navigate to **System Management > Device Specific Settings > Signaling Interface**. Create
Internal and External Signaling Interface as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-64.png)

##### 4.4.3.3 End Point Flows
Navigate to **System Management > Device Specific Settings > End Point Flows**. Select the
Server Flows tab and click Add. Create a Server flow for Avaya Session Manager as shown
below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-65.png)

Select the Server Flows tab and click Add. Create a Server flow for Nexmo as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-66.png)

## 4.5 Avaya Modular Messaging

This section describes the steps for configuring the Avaya Modular Messaging to inter-operate
with Avaya Aura Session Manager via SIP trunking.

##### 4.5.1.1 Messaging Server
Navigate to *Messaging Administration > Networked Machines* to configure Modular Messaging
Server parameters as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-67.png)

##### 4.5.1.2 Subscriber
Navigate to **Messaging Administration > Subscriber Management**. Configure a subscriber for
the Messaging server as shown below.

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-68.png)

![](/images/sip-config/avaya-sbce/avaya-sbce-69.png)

## 4.6 Nexmo Configuration

### 4.6.1 Configure Numbers in Nexmo Account

1. Login to the Nexmo account using the credentials provided at the time of registration. A
    **Key** and **Secret** will be displayed on the dashboard and this can be used as the
    username and password for Registration SIP Trunks.

    ![](/images/sip-config/vonage-dashboard/dashboard-key-secret.png)

2. In order to provide the URL to which the call has to be routed from Nexmo, navigate to
    the **Numbers** tab
3. Click **Edit** against each number as shown below

    ![](/images/sip-config/vonage-dashboard/numbers-dashboard.png)

4. A pop-up will be displayed
5. Select the " **Forward to** " and provide the URL to which the calls route
6. Click **Update** to save the changes

    ![](/images/sip-config/vonage-dashboard/edit-number.png)
