_tutorials/en/client-sdk/phone-to-app/create-application.md, before:

---
title: Create a Nexmo Application
description: In this step you learn how to create a Nexmo Application.
---

# Create your Nexmo Application

In this step you will create a Nexmo [Application](/conversation/concepts/application) with Voice capabilities. Notice that this is not an Android project, but rather Nexmo application project that allows to configure backend for the mobile application that we will create in following steps.

1) First create your project directory if you've not already done so.

2) Change into the project directory.

3) Create a Nexmo application by copying and pasting the command below. Make sure to change the value of `--voice-answer-url` argument by replacing `GIST-URL` with the gist URL from the previous step.

``` shell
nexmo app:create "Phone To App Tutorial" --capabilities=voice --keyfile=private.key  --voice-event-url=https://example.com/ --voice-answer-url=GIST-URL 
```

> **NOTE:** An application can be also created using the CLI's [interactive mode](/application/nexmo-cli#interactive-mode).

A file named `.nexmo-app` is created in your project directory and contains the Nexmo Application ID and the private key. A private key file named `private.key` is also created.

For more details on how to create an application and various available application capabilities please see our [documentation](/application/overview).

The command will also output some details including the generated Application ID. Please make a note of it as you'll need it in the future. 

## Nexmo Dashboard

You can also obtain information about your application, including the Application ID, in the [Nexmo Dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/voice/your-applications).

![Nexmo Developer Dashboard Applications screenshot](/screenshots/tutorials/app-to-phone/nexmo-dashboard-applications.png "Nexmo Developer Dashboard Applications screenshot")

Commit message:

DEVX-3810 Incorporate Android app-to phone tutorial (#3105)
* Update copy gist screenshot location

* Create your Nexmo applicattion

* Remove Android reference from shared create nexmo client page

* Add create directory and enter directory commands into Create your Nexmo Application step

* Execute the following commands in the terminal to

* Be more explicit about JWTs generation

* Update title

* Add screenshots for genrrated JWTs

* Add better instructions on how to open starter project

* Unify create application

* Resolve conflict

* Remove unused page

* Remove nexmo-dashboard-applications.png, unify create-application

* Unify starter project desc

* Add Kotlin-starter project image

* Added click Open

* Add info about AS parsing the project

* Update description

* Add info on how to find classes in the Android project

* Singular form for single user

* Reinforce message about adding missing imports

* Update date

* Add shourtcut for on how to run the app and make it as separate, shared step

* Fix repo URL

* Update spelling

* Clean up

* Update submodules to match current master

* Update copy

* Fix typos

Co-authored-by: Lorna Jane Mitchell <lorna@lornajane.net>

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/phone-to-app/create-application.md, after:

---
title: Create a Nexmo Application
description: In this step you learn how to create a Nexmo Application.
---

# Create your Nexmo Application

You now need to create a Nexmo [Application](/conversation/concepts/application). In this step you create an application capable of handling both in-app Voice and in-app Messaging use cases.

**1.** Create your project directory if you've not already done so.

``` shell
mkdir nexmo-tutorial
```

**2.** Change into the project directory.

``` shell
cd nexmo-tutorial
```

**3.** Create a Nexmo application [interactively](/application/nexmo-cli#interactive-mode). Make sure to change the value of `--voice-answer-url` argument by replacing `GIST-URL` with the gist URL from the previous step. The following command enters interactive mode:

``` shell
nexmo app:create "Phone To App Tutorial" --capabilities=voice --keyfile=private.key  --voice-event-url=https://example.com/ --voice-answer-url=GIST-URL 
```

A file named `.nexmo-app` is created in your project directory and contains the newly created Nexmo Application ID and the private key. A private key file named `private.key` is also created.

**Please make a note of it as you'll need it in the future.**

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/nexmo-application-created.png
```

> **NOTE:** For more details on how to create an application and various available application capabilities please see our [documentation](/application/overview).

> **NOTE:** You can also obtain information about your application, including the Application ID, in the [Nexmo Dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/voice/your-applications).
