_tutorials/en/client-sdk/app-to-phone/starter-project/kotlin.md, before:

---
title: The Starter Project
description: In this step you will clone the starter project
---

# The Starter Project

To make things easier, a `Starter` project is provided for you. It is a simple Android Studio project that contains an application with the following two screens:

1. Clone this [GitHub project](https://github.com/nexmo-community/client-sdk-android-tutorial-voice-app-to-phone).
2. Open the project in the `Android Studio` - navigate to the menu `File -> Open` and select the `kotlin-start` folder from cloned repository.

## Project navigation overview

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-app-to-phone/nav-graph.png
```

The application consists of four screens: 

- **login** - responsible for logging the user
- **main** - allows to start a call and listens for incoming call
- **on call** - displayed during ongoing call, allows to end current call

## Project internal structure

All files that will be modified during this tutorial are located in the `app/src/main/java/com/vonage/tutorial/voice` directory:

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-app-to-phone/project-files.png
```

Commit message:

DEVX-3683 Update app to phone tutorial (#3031)
* Update nav graph label

* Update copy

* Assign user after login

* Remove unused prooperty

* Update desc

* Updated desc

* Update conection desc

* Add launch desc

* Update desc

* Update images

* Typo fix

* Typo fix

* Convert to subhearder

* Build project -> Make project

* Update copy

* Update copy

* Add colon

* Use colon

* Simplify desc

* Upercase

* Minor changes

Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@live.co.uk>

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/app-to-phone/starter-project/kotlin.md, after:

---
title: The starter project
description: In this step you will clone the starter project
---

# The starter project

To make things easier, a starter project is provided for you.

1. Clone this [GitHub project](https://github.com/nexmo-community/client-sdk-android-tutorial-voice-app-to-phone).

2. Open the project in the `Android Studio`.

3. Make the project `Build -> Make Project`, as shown in the following screenshot:
   
```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-shared/make-project.png
```

## Project navigation overview

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-app-to-phone/nav-graph.png
```

The application consists of three screens:

- **login** - responsible for logging the user
- **main** - allows to start a call
- **on call** - displayed during ongoing call, allows to end current call

## Project internal structure

All files that will be modified during this tutorial are located in the `app/src/main/java/com/vonage/tutorial/voice` directory:

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-app-to-phone/project-files.png
```

> **NOTE:** Each view is represented by two classes: `Fragment` that is the thin view and `ViewModel` that handles the view logic.
