_tutorials/en/client-sdk/in-app-messaging/starter-project/kotlin.md, before:

---
title: The Starter Project
description: In this step you will clone the starter project
---

# The Starter Project

To make things easier, a `Starter` project is provided for you. It is a simple Android Studio project that contains an application with the following two screens:

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-in-app-messaging-chat/login-screen.png
```

1. Clone this [GitHub project](https://github.com/nexmo-community/client-sdk-android-tutorial-messaging).
2. Open the project in the `Android Studio` - navigate to menu `File -> Open` and select the `kotlin-start` folder from cloned repository.

All files that will be modified during this tutorial are located in the `app/src/main/java/com/vonage/tutorial/messaging/chat` directory:

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-in-app-messaging-chat/project-files.png
```

Now it's time to fill previously generated `CONVERSATION_ID` and `JWT` tokens.

Open `Config.kt` file and fill:

1. `USER1`'s user Id and JWTs
2. `USER2`'s user Id and JWTs
3. `CONVERSATION_ID` you've created on the previous steps:

```kotlin
package com.vonage.tutorial.messaging

data class User(
    val name: String,
    val jwt: String
)

object Config {

    const val CONVERSATION_ID: String = "" // TODO: set conversation Id

    val user1 = User(
        "USER1",
        "" // TODO: "set USER1's JWT token"
    )
    val user2 = User(
        "USER1",
        "" // TODO: set USER2's JWT token"
    )
}

```

Notice that these constants and values are hardcoded to store the properties of users. This makes it easier to use these values later in this tutorial.

Commit message:

DEVX-3683 Update app to phone tutorial (#3031)
* Update nav graph label

* Update copy

* Assign user after login

* Remove unused prooperty

* Update desc

* Updated desc

* Update conection desc

* Add launch desc

* Update desc

* Update images

* Typo fix

* Typo fix

* Convert to subhearder

* Build project -> Make project

* Update copy

* Update copy

* Add colon

* Use colon

* Simplify desc

* Upercase

* Minor changes

Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@live.co.uk>

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/in-app-messaging/starter-project/kotlin.md, after:

---
title: The Starter Project
description: In this step you will clone the starter project
---

# The Starter Project

To make things easier, a starter project is provided for you.

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-in-app-messaging-chat/login-screen.png
```

1. Clone this [GitHub project](https://github.com/nexmo-community/client-sdk-android-tutorial-messaging).

2. Open the project in the `Android Studio`:
   
   1. Navigate to the menu `File -> Open` 
   2. Select the `kotlin-start` folder from cloned repository

3. Make project `Build -> Make Project`
4. 
```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-shared/make-project.png
```

All files that will be modified during this tutorial are located in the `app/src/main/java/com/vonage/tutorial/messaging/chat` directory:

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-in-app-messaging-chat/project-files.png
```

Now it's time to fill previously generated `CONVERSATION_ID` and `JWT` tokens.

Open `Config.kt` file and fill:

1. `USER1`'s user Id and JWTs
2. `USER2`'s user Id and JWTs
3. `CONVERSATION_ID` you've created on the previous steps:

```kotlin
package com.vonage.tutorial.messaging

data class User(
    val name: String,
    val jwt: String
)

object Config {

    const val CONVERSATION_ID: String = "" // TODO: set conversation Id

    val user1 = User(
        "USER1",
        "" // TODO: "set USER1's JWT token"
    )
    val user2 = User(
        "USER1",
        "" // TODO: set USER2's JWT token"
    )
}

```

Notice that these constants and values are hardcoded to store the properties of users. This makes it easier to use these values later in this tutorial.
