_tutorials/en/client-sdk/generate-jwt-alice.md, before:

---
title: Generate a JWT
description: In this step you learn how to generate a valid JWT for your Client SDK Application.
---

# Generate a JWT

The Client SDK uses [JWTs](/concepts/guides/authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt) for authentication. The JWT identifies the user name, the associated application ID and the permissions granted to the user. It is signed using your private key to prove that it is a valid token.

> **NOTE**: We'll be creating a one-time use JWT on this page for testing. In production apps, your server should expose an endpoint that generates a JWT for each client request.

You are generating a JWT using the Nexmo CLI by running the following command but remember to replace the `APP_ID` variable with your own value:

``` shell
nexmo jwt:generate ./private.key exp=$(($(date +%s)+21600)) acl='{"paths":{"/*/users/**":{},"/*/conversations/**":{},"/*/sessions/**":{},"/*/devices/**":{},"/*/image/**":{},"/*/media/**":{},"/*/applications/**":{},"/*/push/**":{},"/*/knocking/**":{},"/*/legs/**":{}}}' sub=Alice application_id=APP_ID
```

The generated JWT will be valid for the next 6 hours.

![](/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/generated-jwt-key.png)

## Further information

* [online JWT generator](/jwt)
* [JWT guide](/concepts/guides/authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt)

Commit message:

Update/cli docs (#3806)
* updates to cli documentation

* doc edits batch 2

* cli docs updates - round 3

* fix spelling errors

* update redirects

* Fixing various documentation issues following review.

* update client sdk app to app

* update client sdk app to phone

* update client sdk phone to app

Co-authored-by: superchilled <karl@superchilled.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: Abdul Ajetunmobi <abdul.ajetunmobi@vonage.com>

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/generate-jwt-alice.md, after:

---
title: Generate a JWT
description: In this step you learn how to generate a valid JWT for your Client SDK Application.
---

# Generate a JWT

The Client SDK uses [JWTs](/concepts/guides/authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt) for authentication. The JWT identifies the user name, the associated application ID and the permissions granted to the user. It is signed using your private key to prove that it is a valid token.

Run the following commands, remember to replace the `APPLICATION_ID` variable with id of your application and `PRIVATE_KEY` with the name of your private key file.

> **NOTE**: We'll be creating a one-time use JWT on this page for testing. In production apps, your server should expose an endpoint that generates a JWT for each client request.

You are generating a JWT using the Vonage CLI by running the following command but remember to replace the `APP_ID` variable with your own value:

``` shell
vonage jwt --app_id=APPLICATION_ID --subject=Alice --key_file=./PRIVATE_KEY --acl='{"paths":{"/*/users/**":{},"/*/conversations/**":{},"/*/sessions/**":{},"/*/devices/**":{},"/*/image/**":{},"/*/media/**":{},"/*/applications/**":{},"/*/push/**":{},"/*/knocking/**":{},"/*/legs/**":{}}}'
```

The above commands set the expiry of the JWT to one day from now, which is the maximum.

![terminal screenshot of a generated sample JWT](/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/generated-jwt-key-vonage.png)


## Further information

* [online JWT generator](/jwt)
* [JWT guide](/concepts/guides/authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt)
