_extend/amazon-lex-connector.md, before:

---
title: Amazon Lex Connector
description: An opensource connector to bridge between Vonage websockets and Amazon Lex
tags: ["Amazon","Lex","AI","Bots"]
cta: Get this Repo
link: https://github.com/nexmo/lex-connector
image: /images/extend/amazon-lex-logo.jpg
published: true
---

## Overview
The Lex connector is a middleware component which sits between the [Voice API Websocket](https://developer.nexmo.com/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets) and [Amazon Lex](https://aws.amazon.com/lex/), it allows you to connect a call directly to a Lex bot, all audio from that call will then be sent to Lex and responses played back into the call. You pass the details of the Lex bot endpoint and AWS credentials to Nexmo through the NCCO Connect action.
The connector is supplied as an open source project written in python.

## Resources
* [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/nexmo/lex-connector)
* [Lex PostContent Endpoint](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lex/latest/dg/API_runtime_PostContent.html) For information

## Support
This open source project is supported by the Nexmo DevRel team on a best effort basis, issues should be raised in the github repository.

Commit message:

Further rebranding changes (#3343)
* Rebranding changes

* Fix typos

* Prefix API Dev Portal with Vonage

* Reverse change to .github MD

_extend/amazon-lex-connector.md, after:

---
title: Amazon Lex Connector
description: An opensource connector to bridge between Vonage websockets and Amazon Lex
tags: ["Amazon","Lex","AI","Bots"]
cta: Get this Repo
link: https://github.com/nexmo/lex-connector
image: /images/extend/amazon-lex-logo.jpg
published: true
---

## Overview
The Lex connector is a middleware component which sits between the [Voice API Websocket](https://developer.nexmo.com/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets) and [Amazon Lex](https://aws.amazon.com/lex/), it allows you to connect a call directly to a Lex bot, all audio from that call will then be sent to Lex and responses played back into the call. You pass the details of the Lex bot endpoint and AWS credentials to Vonage through the NCCO Connect action.
The connector is supplied as an open source project written in python.

## Resources
* [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/nexmo/lex-connector)
* [Lex PostContent Endpoint](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lex/latest/dg/API_runtime_PostContent.html) For information

## Support
This open source project is supported by the Vonage Product and Developer Experience team on a best effort basis, issues should be raised in the github repository.
