_extend/azure-speech-to-text.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Azure Speech To Text
description: Sample of Azure speech transcribing audio from a call in realtime.
tags: ["Microsoft", "Azure", "Speech to Text","Transcription","Python"]
cta: Get this Repo
link: https://github.com/nexmo-community/voice-microsoft-speechtotext
image: /images/extend/azure-icon.png
published: true
---


## Usage
This code shows how to send audio from the [Nexmo Voice API Websocket](https://developer.nexmo.com/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets) to  [Azure Speech-to-text](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/cognitive-services/speech-to-text/), it allows you obtain real time transcription of the callers speech.

Currently this is open source example code which is designed for you to build out from, you might pass the text to a bot platform, transcribe a call to notes or it to collect information from callers into your systems directly.

## Resources
* [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/voice-microsoft-speechtotext)
* [Azure Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/cognitive-services/speech-service/) For information

## Support
This open source project is supported by the Nexmo DevRel team on a best effort basis, issues should be raised in the GitHub repository.

Commit message:

Further rebranding changes (#3343)
* Rebranding changes

* Fix typos

* Prefix API Dev Portal with Vonage

* Reverse change to .github MD

_extend/azure-speech-to-text.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Azure Speech To Text
description: Sample of Azure speech transcribing audio from a call in realtime.
tags: ["Microsoft", "Azure", "Speech to Text","Transcription","Python"]
cta: Get this Repo
link: https://github.com/nexmo-community/voice-microsoft-speechtotext
image: /images/extend/azure-icon.png
published: true
---


## Usage
This code shows how to send audio from the [Vonage Voice API Websocket](https://developer.nexmo.com/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets) to  [Azure Speech-to-text](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/cognitive-services/speech-to-text/), it allows you obtain real time transcription of the callers speech.

Currently this is open source example code which is designed for you to build out from, you might pass the text to a bot platform, transcribe a call to notes or it to collect information from callers into your systems directly.

## Resources
* [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/voice-microsoft-speechtotext)
* [Azure Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/cognitive-services/speech-service/) For information

## Support
This open source project is supported by the Vonage Product and Developer Experience team on a best effort basis, issues should be raised in the GitHub repository.
