_extend/converse-ai.md, before:

---
title: Converse.ai
description: Nexmo plugin allows users to build and host IVR (Interactive Voice Response) systems with in Converse platform and handle SMS messages.
tags: ["Converse.ai","IVR","SMS"]
cta: Use Converse AI
link: https://get.converse.ai/docs/nexmo
image: /images/extend/converse_small.png
published: true
---

## Usage

To use the Nexmo integration you will need a Nexmo account. After you have created the account you will be given API credentials, key and secret, that you include in the Converse plugin registration.

## Resources

- [Converse Documentation](https://get.converse.ai/docs/nexmo)
- [IVR Bot Example Flow](https://get.converse.ai/docs/nexmo_ivr_bot) -
- Launch Blog Posts
  - [Converse.AI and Nexmo partner to help Dolby drive collaboration](https://blog.converse.ai/converse-ai-and-nexmo-partner-to-help-dolby-drive-collaboration-6acffceb427f)
  - [Automate Business Workflows with Real-time Communication and Intelligent Bots](https://www.nexmo.com/blog/2018/03/13/automate-business-workflows-with-real-time-communication-and-intelligent-bots/)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-converseai) -

## Support

[Converse AI Forum](https://get.converse.ai/discuss)

Commit message:

Further rebranding changes (#3343)
* Rebranding changes

* Fix typos

* Prefix API Dev Portal with Vonage

* Reverse change to .github MD

_extend/converse-ai.md, after:

---
title: Converse.ai
description: A Vonage plugin that allows users to build and host IVR (Interactive Voice Response) systems within the Converse platform and handle SMS messages.
tags: ["Converse.ai","IVR","SMS"]
cta: Use Converse AI
link: https://get.converse.ai/docs/nexmo
image: /images/extend/converse_small.png
published: true
---

## Usage

To use the Vonage integration you will need a Vonage account. After you have created the account you will be given API credentials, key and secret, that you include in the Converse plugin registration.

## Resources

- [Converse Documentation](https://get.converse.ai/docs/nexmo)
- [IVR Bot Example Flow](https://get.converse.ai/docs/nexmo_ivr_bot) -
- Launch Blog Posts
  - [Converse.AI and Vonage partner to help Dolby drive collaboration](https://blog.converse.ai/converse-ai-and-nexmo-partner-to-help-dolby-drive-collaboration-6acffceb427f)
  - [Automate Business Workflows with Real-time Communication and Intelligent Bots](https://www.nexmo.com/blog/2018/03/13/automate-business-workflows-with-real-time-communication-and-intelligent-bots/)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-converseai) -

## Support

[Converse AI Forum](https://get.converse.ai/discuss)
