_extend/ibm-watson-sms-sentiment-analysis.md, before:

---
title: IBM Watson SMS Sentiment Analysis
description: Read incoming SMS messages and have IBM Watson to analyze the messages
tags: ["Watson","AI", "SMS", "Sentiment Analysis"]
cta: Get this Repo
link: https://github.com/nexmo-community/sms-sentiment-watson
image: /images/extend/ibm_watson_avatar_purple.png
published: true
---

## About
This is an application that will return the sentiment of a incoming SMS using Watson
![emotion-analysis](/assets/images/extend/emotion-analysis.png)

## Usage
- To run the application, you will need to have a [Nexmo Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/) as well as a account on [IBM Bluemix](https://console.ng.bluemix.net/).
- Clone the repo on [GitHub](https://github.com/nexmo-community/sms-sentiment-watson)
- Follow the [Readme on our GitHub page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nexmo-community/sms-sentiment-watson/master/README.md).

## Support
This open source project is supported by the Nexmo DevRel team on a best effort basis, issues should be raised in the GitHub repository.

Commit message:

Further rebranding changes (#3343)
* Rebranding changes

* Fix typos

* Prefix API Dev Portal with Vonage

* Reverse change to .github MD

_extend/ibm-watson-sms-sentiment-analysis.md, after:

---
title: IBM Watson SMS Sentiment Analysis
description: Read incoming SMS messages and have IBM Watson to analyze the messages
tags: ["Watson","AI", "SMS", "Sentiment Analysis"]
cta: Get this Repo
link: https://github.com/nexmo-community/sms-sentiment-watson
image: /images/extend/ibm_watson_avatar_purple.png
published: true
---

## About
This is an application that will return the sentiment of a incoming SMS using Watson
![emotion-analysis](/assets/images/extend/emotion-analysis.png)

## Usage
- To run the application, you will need to have a [Vonage Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/) as well as a account on [IBM Bluemix](https://console.ng.bluemix.net/).
- Clone the repo on [GitHub](https://github.com/nexmo-community/sms-sentiment-watson)
- Follow the [Readme on our GitHub page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nexmo-community/sms-sentiment-watson/master/README.md).

## Support
This open source project is supported by the Vonage Product and Developer Experience team on a best effort basis, issues should be raised in the GitHub repository.
