_tutorials/en/client-sdk/in-app-messaging/receive-new-messages/java.md, before:

---
title:  Receive new messages
description:  In this step you display any new messages

---

Receive new messages
====================

You can display incoming messages by implementing the conversation listener.

Now, locate the `private val messageListener = object : NexmoMessageEventListener` property in the `ChatFragment` class and implement conversation listener `onTextEvent(textEvent: NexmoTextEvent)` method:

```java
private NexmoMessageEventListener messageListener = new NexmoMessageEventListener() {
    @Override
    public void onTextEvent(@NonNull NexmoTextEvent textEvent) {
        updateConversation(textEvent);
    }

    @Override
    public void onAttachmentEvent(@NonNull NexmoAttachmentEvent attachmentEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onEventDeleted(@NonNull NexmoDeletedEvent deletedEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onSeenReceipt(@NonNull NexmoSeenEvent seenEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onDeliveredReceipt(@NonNull NexmoDeliveredEvent deliveredEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onTypingEvent(@NonNull NexmoTypingEvent typingEvent) {

    }
};
```

Now each time a new message is received `onTextEvent(textEvent: NexmoTextEvent)` listener is called, the new message will be passed to `updateConversation(textEvent: NexmoTextEvent)` method and dispatched to the view via `conversationMessages` `LiveData` (same `LiveData` used to dispatch all the messages after loading conversation events).

The last thing to do is to make sure that all listeners are removed when `ChatViewModel` is destroyed, for example, when the user navigates back. Fill the body of the `onCleared()` method in the `ChatViewModel` class.

```java
@Override
protected void onCleared() {
    conversation.removeMessageEventListener(messageListener);
}
```

Commit message:

remove more client sdk docs from translation and restore english client sdk from master

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/in-app-messaging/receive-new-messages/java.md, after:

---
title: Receive new messages
description: In this step you display any new messages
---

# Receive new messages

You can display incoming messages by implementing the conversation listener.


Now, locate the `private NexmoMessageEventListener messageListener` property in the `ChatViewModel` class and implement conversation listener `onTextEvent` method:

```java
private NexmoMessageEventListener messageListener = new NexmoMessageEventListener() {
    @Override
    public void onTextEvent(@NonNull NexmoTextEvent textEvent) {
        updateConversation(textEvent);
    }

    @Override
    public void onAttachmentEvent(@NonNull NexmoAttachmentEvent attachmentEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onEventDeleted(@NonNull NexmoDeletedEvent deletedEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onSeenReceipt(@NonNull NexmoSeenEvent seenEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onDeliveredReceipt(@NonNull NexmoDeliveredEvent deliveredEvent) {

    }

    @Override
    public void onTypingEvent(@NonNull NexmoTypingEvent typingEvent) {

    }
};
```

Now each time a new message is received `public void onTextEvent(@NonNull NexmoTextEvent textEvent)` listener is called, the new message will be passed to `updateConversation(` method and dispatched to the view via `conversationEvents` `LiveData` (same `LiveData` used to dispatch all the messages after loading conversation events).

The last thing to do is to make sure that all listeners are removed when `ChatViewModel` is destroyed, for example, when the user navigates back. Fill the body of the `onCleared()` method in the `ChatViewModel` class.

```java
@Override
protected void onCleared() {
    conversation.removeMessageEventListener(messageListener);
}
```

# Run the app

You can either launch the app on the physical phone (with [USB Debugging enabled](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/dev-options#enable)) or create a new [Android Virtual Device](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/managing-avds). When device is present press `Run` button: 

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-shared/launch-app.png
```
