_tutorials/en/client-sdk/android-shared/initialize-client/kotlin.md, before:

---
title: Initialize the client
description: In this step you will initialize `NexmoClient`, so it can be used within the application.
---

# Initialize the client

[NexmoClient](https://developer.nexmo.com/sdk/stitch/android/com/nexmo/client/NexmoClient.html) is the main class used to interact with `Android-Client-SDK`. Prior to usage, we have to initialize the client by providing an instance of the Android [Context](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Context) class. The best place to initialize the client is the custom Android [Application](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Application) class.

Locate the `BaseApplication` class and initialize `NexmoClient` using the builder:

```kotlin
class BaseApplication : Application() {

    override fun onCreate() {
        super.onCreate()
        
        NexmoClient.Builder().build(this)
    }
}
```

The above code will allow retrieving `NexmoClient` instance later by using `NexmoClient.get()`.

> **NOTE:** You can enable additional `Logcat` logging by using `logLevel()` method of the builder, for example, `NexmoClient.Builder().logLevel(ILogger.eLogLevel.SENSITIVE).build(this)`

You now have a working client. Your next step is to authenticate the users.

Commit message:

DEVX-3786 Incorporate Android app-to phone tutorial feedback (#3091)
* Improve tutorial

* Share initialise the client across all Android tutorials

* Add 2nd project explenation

* Update 2 projects desc

* Typo fix

* Change update date

* Update spelling

* Typo fix

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/android-shared/initialize-client/kotlin.md, after:

---
title: Initialize the client
description: In this step you will initialize `NexmoClient`, so it can be used within the application.
---

# Initialize the client

[NexmoClient](https://developer.nexmo.com/sdk/stitch/android/com/nexmo/client/NexmoClient.html) is the main class used to interact with `Android-Client-SDK`. Prior to usage, we have to initialize the client by providing an instance of the Android [Context](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Context) class. The best place to initialize the client is the custom Android [Application](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Application) class.

Locate the `BaseApplication` class and initialize `NexmoClient` using the builder:

```kotlin
class BaseApplication : Application() {

    override fun onCreate() {
        super.onCreate()
        
        NexmoClient.Builder().build(this)
    }
}
```

The above code will allow retrieving `NexmoClient` instance later by using `NexmoClient.get()`.

> **NOTE:** You can enable additional `Logcat` logging by using `logLevel()` method of the builder, for example, `NexmoClient.Builder().logLevel(ILogger.eLogLevel.SENSITIVE).build(this)`

If Android Studio can't find the reference to the `NexmoClient` class then you have to add the missing import. Roll over on the `NexmoClient` class, wait for window to appear and press `Import` (this will be required in following steps as well).

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/android-shared/missing-import.png
```

You now have a working client. Your next step is to authenticate the users.
