_use_cases/en/add-a-call-whisper-to-an-inbound-call.md, before:

---
title: Add a Call whisper to an inbound call
products: voice/voice-api
description: "Phone numbers are everywhere in advertising: on billboards, in TV ads, on websites, in newspapers. Often these numbers all redirect to the same call center, where an agent needs to inquire why the person is calling, and where they saw the advert. Call Whispers make this so much simpler."
languages:
    - Node
---

# Voice - Add a Call whisper to an inbound call

Phone numbers are everywhere in advertising: on billboards, in TV ads, on websites, in newspapers. Often these numbers all redirect to the same call center, where an agent needs to inquire why the person is calling, and where they saw the advert.

Using call whispers, the context of the incoming call is announced to the call center operator before being connected to the caller. This tutorial will show an application that implements this approach. A user will call one of two numbers. The application answers the call and the caller hears a holding message. Meanwhile, the application also makes a call to the call center operative, plays a different call whisper depending on which number was dialled, and then connects the operative to the conference with the incoming caller.

The examples are written in node.js with express, and you can find the code [on GitHub](https://github.com/Nexmo/node-call-whisper).

## In this tutorial

You will see how to build add a Call Whisper to an inbound call:

* [How it works](#how-it-works) - an overview of who is calling who and how the process flows throughout the example application.
* [Before you begin](#before-you-begin) - set up the application and numbers needed for this tutorial.
* [Getting started with code](#getting-started-with-code) - clone the repository and get the application running.
* [Code walkthrough](#code-walkthrough) - dive in to the finer points of how the application works.
* [Further reading](#further-reading) - check out some other resources that you might find helpful.

## How it works

```sequence_diagram
User->>Nexmo number: User calls either of\nthe numbers linked\n to this Application
Nexmo number-->>Application: /answer
Application->>Operative: Connects to operative's number
Note left of Operative: When operative\nanswers
Operative-->>Application: /answer_outbound
Application->>Operative: Announces key information\nabout original caller
Note left of Operative: Callers are connected
```

## Before you begin

Before we grab and run the code, there are a few things we need to do first.

### Sign up for Nexmo

[Sign up for a Nexmo account](https://nexmo.com) if you don't have one already.

### Set up the CLI

This tutorial uses the [Nexmo command line tool](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-cli), so check it is installed before proceeding.


### Buy two phone numbers

You will want two phone numbers in order to observe different whispers when calling different numbers. Run this command twice and make a note of the numbers that you have bought:

```bash
$ nexmo number:buy --country_code US --confirm
```

### Create an application

Create a new Nexmo application and save the private key - you'll need this later. Replace `https://example.com` with the URL of your own application for both the "answer" and "event" arguments in this command:

```bash
nexmo app:create "Call Whisper" https://example.com/answer https://example.com/event --keyfile app.key
```

This command grabs the private key and puts it safely in `app.key` for you. Make a note of the application ID as it's used in the next command...

### Link numbers to your application

Link the application to both numbers, by running the command below once for each number:

```bash
nexmo link:app [NEXMO_NUMBER] [APP_ID]
```

> You can get a list of apps or numbers at any time with the `nexmo app:list` and `nexmo number:list` commands respectively.

## Getting started with code

The code for this project is on GitHub at <https://github.com/Nexmo/node-call-whisper>. This consists of a node.js project using Express and is intended to give you a working example that you can then adapt for your own needs.

### Clone the repository

Either clone or download the repository to your local machine, in a new directory.

### Configure the settings

Your application will need to know more about you and your application before it can run. Copy the `.env-example` file to `.env` and edit this new file to reflect the settings you want to use:

* `CALL_CENTER_NUMBER`: The phone number to reach the call center operative on, such as your mobile number
* `INBOUND_NUMBER_1`: One of the numbers you purchased
* `INBOUND_NUMBER_2`: The other number you purchased
* `DOMAIN`: The domain name of where your app will be running, for example mine is: `ff7b398a.ngrok.io`

### Install the dependencies

In the directory where you downloaded the code, run `npm install`. This brings in Express and other dependencies needed for this project.

### Start the server

With the configuration done and the dependencies in place, your application is ready to go! Run it with:

`npm start`

By default, the application runs on port 5000. If you're going to be using `ngrok`, you can start your tunnel now.

> When the ngrok tunnel name changes, remember to update your application's URLs with the `nexmo app:update` command.

## Try it out

Let's try the demo. For this you need two phones (one to be the "caller" and one to be the "call center operative") so you may need to recruit a friend or use Skype to make the first call.

1. Call one of the numbers you purchased.
2. The caller will hear a greeting message, and then the call center operative's phone number will ring.
3. When the call center operative answers, they will hear the "whisper" message before they are connected to the original caller.
4. Now try that again but call the other number and listen to the different "whisper".

## Code walkthrough

The demo is fun but if you're interested in building this yourself, then there are some key points that you probably want to see. This section looks at the key sections of the code for each step of the process so that you can find where things take place and can adapt this application to suit your needs.

### Answer the incoming call, and start an outbound call

Whenever someone calls one of the numbers that are linked to the Nexmo application, Nexmo will receive an incoming call. Nexmo will then notify your web application of that call. It does this by making a [webhook request](/voice/voice-api/webhook-reference#answer-webhook) to your web app's `answer_url` endpoint - in this case `/answer`. When the call is answered, the application connects that caller to the call center operative.

**lib/routes.js**

```js
  app.get('/answer', function(req, res) {
    var answer_url = 'http://'+process.env['DOMAIN']+'/on-answer'
    console.log(answer_url);

      res.json([
        {
          "action": "talk",
          "text": "Thanks for calling. Please wait while we connect you"
        },
        {
          "action": "connect",
          "from": req.query.to,
          "endpoint": [{
            "type": "phone",
            "number": process.env['CALL_CENTER_NUMBER'],
            "onAnswer": {"url": answer_url}
          }]
        }
      ]);
  });

```

*Note: Take a look at the [Voice API reference](/api/voice) for more info.*

The response we return is an array of [NCCOs](https://developer.nexmo.com/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference) (Nexmo Call Control Objects). The first one is the spoken message that the caller hears; the second connects to the other caller and specifies which URL should be used when that person answers the call.

### Play a Whisper and Connect the Call

When the call center operative answers the call, the `onAnswer` URL is used, in our application that's the `/on-answer` endpoint. This is the code that looks up which number was dialled and works out what announcement to make.

**lib/routes.js**

```js
// Define the topics for the inbound numbers
var topics = {}
topics[process.env['INBOUND_NUMBER_1']] = 'the summer offer';
topics[process.env['INBOUND_NUMBER_2']] = 'the winter offer';
```

When the call is connected, play a call whisper to the agent using the `talk` NCCO action, informing them which advertising campaign the call is about, before connecting them to the caller waiting in the conference.

**lib/routes.js**

```js
  app.get('/on-answer', function(req, res) {
    // we determine the topic of the call based on the inbound call number
    var topic = topics[req.query.from]

    res.json([
      // We first play back a little message telling the call center operator what
      // the call relates to. This "whisper" can only be heard by the call center operator
      {
        "action": "talk",
        "text": "Incoming call regarding "+topic
      }
    ]);
  });

```

There are so many possibilities here that can help you to customize the whispers. You could pass the incoming caller's number with the `url` in `onAnswer` and look them up, allowing you to greet them by name or provide some other information. The possibilities are endless but hopefully this tutorial gives you a working example you can build on and customize.

## Further reading

* <https://github.com/Nexmo/node-call-whisper> contains all the code for this example application.
* Check out our [Voice Guides](/voice) for more things you can do with voice.
* The [Voice API Reference](/api/voice) has detailed documentation for each endpoint.

Commit message:

Rebrand Nexmo number (#3334)
* Rebrand Nexmo number

* Fix some merge conflicts

* Change sign up URL

* Whitespace fix

Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@live.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@vonage.com>

_use_cases/en/add-a-call-whisper-to-an-inbound-call.md, after:

---
title: Add a Call whisper to an inbound call
products: voice/voice-api
description: "Phone numbers are everywhere in advertising: on billboards, in TV ads, on websites, in newspapers. Often these numbers all redirect to the same call center, where an agent needs to inquire why the person is calling, and where they saw the advert. Call Whispers make this so much simpler."
languages:
    - Node
---

# Voice - Add a Call whisper to an inbound call

Phone numbers are everywhere in advertising: on billboards, in TV ads, on websites, in newspapers. Often these numbers all redirect to the same call center, where an agent needs to inquire why the person is calling, and where they saw the advert.

Using call whispers, the context of the incoming call is announced to the call center operator before being connected to the caller. This tutorial will show an application that implements this approach. A user will call one of two numbers. The application answers the call and the caller hears a holding message. Meanwhile, the application also makes a call to the call center operative, plays a different call whisper depending on which number was dialled, and then connects the operative to the conference with the incoming caller.

The examples are written in node.js with express, and you can find the code [on GitHub](https://github.com/Nexmo/node-call-whisper).

## In this tutorial

You will see how to build add a Call Whisper to an inbound call:

* [How it works](#how-it-works) - an overview of who is calling who and how the process flows throughout the example application.
* [Before you begin](#before-you-begin) - set up the application and numbers needed for this tutorial.
* [Getting started with code](#getting-started-with-code) - clone the repository and get the application running.
* [Code walkthrough](#code-walkthrough) - dive in to the finer points of how the application works.
* [Further reading](#further-reading) - check out some other resources that you might find helpful.

## How it works

```sequence_diagram
User->>Vonage number: User calls either of\nthe numbers linked\n to this Application
Vonage number-->>Application: /answer
Application->>Operative: Connects to operative's number
Note left of Operative: When operative\nanswers
Operative-->>Application: /answer_outbound
Application->>Operative: Announces key information\nabout original caller
Note left of Operative: Callers are connected
```

## Before you begin

Before we grab and run the code, there are a few things we need to do first.

### Sign up for Vonage

[Sign up for a Vonage API account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-up) if you don't have one already.

### Set up the CLI

This tutorial uses the [Nexmo command line tool](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-cli), so check it is installed before proceeding.

### Buy two phone numbers

You will want two phone numbers in order to observe different whispers when calling different numbers. Run this command twice and make a note of the numbers that you have bought:

```bash
$ nexmo number:buy --country_code US --confirm
```

### Create an application

Create a new Vonage application and save the private key - you'll need this later. Replace `https://example.com` with the URL of your own application for both the "answer" and "event" arguments in this command:

```bash
nexmo app:create "Call Whisper" https://example.com/answer https://example.com/event --keyfile app.key
```

This command grabs the private key and puts it safely in `app.key` for you. Make a note of the application ID as it's used in the next command...

### Link numbers to your application

Link the application to both numbers, by running the command below once for each number:

```bash
nexmo link:app [NEXMO_NUMBER] [APP_ID]
```

> You can get a list of apps or numbers at any time with the `nexmo app:list` and `nexmo number:list` commands respectively.

## Getting started with code

The code for this project is on GitHub at <https://github.com/Nexmo/node-call-whisper>. This consists of a node.js project using Express and is intended to give you a working example that you can then adapt for your own needs.

### Clone the repository

Either clone or download the repository to your local machine, in a new directory.

### Configure the settings

Your application will need to know more about you and your application before it can run. Copy the `.env-example` file to `.env` and edit this new file to reflect the settings you want to use:

* `CALL_CENTER_NUMBER`: The phone number to reach the call center operative on, such as your mobile number
* `INBOUND_NUMBER_1`: One of the numbers you purchased
* `INBOUND_NUMBER_2`: The other number you purchased
* `DOMAIN`: The domain name of where your app will be running, for example mine is: `ff7b398a.ngrok.io`

### Install the dependencies

In the directory where you downloaded the code, run `npm install`. This brings in Express and other dependencies needed for this project.

### Start the server

With the configuration done and the dependencies in place, your application is ready to go! Run it with:

`npm start`

By default, the application runs on port 5000. If you're going to be using `ngrok`, you can start your tunnel now.

> When the ngrok tunnel name changes, remember to update your application's URLs with the `nexmo app:update` command.

## Try it out

Let's try the demo. For this you need two phones (one to be the "caller" and one to be the "call center operative") so you may need to recruit a friend or use Skype to make the first call.

1. Call one of the numbers you purchased.
2. The caller will hear a greeting message, and then the call center operative's phone number will ring.
3. When the call center operative answers, they will hear the "whisper" message before they are connected to the original caller.
4. Now try that again but call the other number and listen to the different "whisper".

## Code walkthrough

The demo is fun but if you're interested in building this yourself, then there are some key points that you probably want to see. This section looks at the key sections of the code for each step of the process so that you can find where things take place and can adapt this application to suit your needs.

### Answer the incoming call, and start an outbound call

Whenever someone calls one of the numbers that are linked to the Vonage application, Vonage will receive an incoming call. Vonage will then notify your web application of that call. It does this by making a [webhook request](/voice/voice-api/webhook-reference#answer-webhook) to your web app's `answer_url` endpoint - in this case `/answer`. When the call is answered, the application connects that caller to the call center operative.

**lib/routes.js**

```js
  app.get('/answer', function(req, res) {
    var answer_url = 'http://'+process.env['DOMAIN']+'/on-answer'
    console.log(answer_url);

      res.json([
        {
          "action": "talk",
          "text": "Thanks for calling. Please wait while we connect you"
        },
        {
          "action": "connect",
          "from": req.query.to,
          "endpoint": [{
            "type": "phone",
            "number": process.env['CALL_CENTER_NUMBER'],
            "onAnswer": {"url": answer_url}
          }]
        }
      ]);
  });

```

*Note: Take a look at the [Voice API reference](/api/voice) for more info.*

The response we return is an array of [NCCOs](https://developer.nexmo.com/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference) (Nexmo Call Control Objects). The first one is the spoken message that the caller hears; the second connects to the other caller and specifies which URL should be used when that person answers the call.

### Play a Whisper and Connect the Call

When the call center operative answers the call, the `onAnswer` URL is used, in our application that's the `/on-answer` endpoint. This is the code that looks up which number was dialled and works out what announcement to make.

**lib/routes.js**

```js
// Define the topics for the inbound numbers
var topics = {}
topics[process.env['INBOUND_NUMBER_1']] = 'the summer offer';
topics[process.env['INBOUND_NUMBER_2']] = 'the winter offer';
```

When the call is connected, play a call whisper to the agent using the `talk` NCCO action, informing them which advertising campaign the call is about, before connecting them to the caller waiting in the conference.

**lib/routes.js**

```js
  app.get('/on-answer', function(req, res) {
    // we determine the topic of the call based on the inbound call number
    var topic = topics[req.query.from]

    res.json([
      // We first play back a little message telling the call center operator what
      // the call relates to. This "whisper" can only be heard by the call center operator
      {
        "action": "talk",
        "text": "Incoming call regarding "+topic
      }
    ]);
  });

```

There are so many possibilities here that can help you to customize the whispers. You could pass the incoming caller's number with the `url` in `onAnswer` and look them up, allowing you to greet them by name or provide some other information. The possibilities are endless but hopefully this tutorial gives you a working example you can build on and customize.

## Further reading

* <https://github.com/Nexmo/node-call-whisper> contains all the code for this example application.
* Check out our [Voice Guides](/voice) for more things you can do with voice.
* The [Voice API Reference](/api/voice) has detailed documentation for each endpoint.
