_use_cases/en/asr-use-case-voice-bot.md, before:

---
title: Voice Bot
products: voice/voice-api
description: "This tutorial shows you how to use Automatic Speech Recognition to create a voice bot/interactive voice assistant application."
languages:
    - Node
---

# Voice Bot / Interactive Voice Assistant

In this tutorial, you will create a simple bot answering an inbound phone call. The bot will ask for your location and share your actual weather conditions in response. You will implement this using the [express](https://expressjs.com/) web application framework, [Weatherstack](https://weatherstack.com/) API and Vonage Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) feature.

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you need:

* A [Nexmo account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-up)
* The [Nexmo CLI](/application/nexmo-cli) installed and set up
* [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) - to make your development web server accessible to Nexmo's servers over the Internet
* [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed

## Install the dependencies

Install the [express](https://expressjs.com) web application framework and [body-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/body-parser) packages:

```sh
$ npm install express body-parser
```

## Purchase a Nexmo number

If you don't already have one, buy a Nexmo virtual number to receive inbound calls.

First, list the numbers available in your country (replace `GB` with your two-character [country code](https://www.iban.com/country-codes)):

```sh
nexmo number:search GB
```

Purchase one of the available numbers. For example, to purchase the number `447700900001`, execute the following command:

```sh
nexmo number:buy 447700900001
```

## Create a Voice API application

Use the CLI to create a Voice API application with the webhooks that will be responsible for answering a call on your Nexmo number (`/webhooks/answer`) and logging call events (`/webhooks/events`), respectively.

These webhooks need to be accessible by Nexmo's servers, so in this tutorial you will use `ngrok` to expose your local development environment to the public Internet. [This article](/tools/ngrok) explains how to install and run `ngrok`.

Run `ngrok` using the following command:

```sh
ngrok http 3000
```

Make a note of the temporary host name that `ngrok` provides and use it in place of `example.com` in the following command:

```sh
nexmo app:create "Weather Bot" --capabilities=voice --voice-event-url=https://example.com/webhooks/event --voice-answer-url=https://example.com/webhooks/answer --keyfile=private.key
```

The command returns an application ID (which you should make a note of) and your private key information (which you can safely ignore for the purposes of this tutorial).

## Link your number

You need to link your Nexmo number to the Voice API application that you just created. Use the following command:

```sh
nexmo link:app NEXMO_NUMBER NEXMO_APPLICATION_ID
```

You're now ready to write your application code.


## Sign up Weatherstack account

In this tutorial, you will use Weatherstack API to get weather info. To make a request, you have to [sign up](https://weatherstack.com/signup/free) for a free account to get the API key.


## Write your answer webhook

When Nexmo receives an inbound call on your virtual number, it will make a request to your `/webhooks/answer` route. This route should accept an HTTP `GET` request and return a [Nexmo Call Control Object (NCCO)](/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference) that tells Nexmo how to handle the call.

Your NCCO should use the `talk` action to greet the caller, and the `input` action to start listening:

```js
'use strict'

const express = require('express')
const bodyParser = require('body-parser')
const app = express()
const http = require('http')

app.use(bodyParser.json())

app.get('/webhooks/answer', (request, response) => {

  const ncco = [{
      action: 'talk',
      text: 'Thank you for calling Weather Bot! Where are you from?'
    },
    {
      action: 'input',
      eventUrl: [
        `${request.protocol}://${request.get('host')}/webhooks/asr`],
      type: [ "speech" ]
    },
    {
      action: 'talk',
      text: 'Sorry, I don\'t hear you'
    }
  ]

  response.json(ncco)
})
```

## Write your event webhook

Implement a webhook that captures call events so that you can observe the lifecycle of the call in the console:

```js
app.post('/webhooks/events', (request, response) => {
  console.log(request.body)
  response.sendStatus(200);
})
```

Nexmo makes a `POST` request to this endpoint every time the call status changes.

## Write your ASR webhook

Speech recognition results will be sent to the specific URL you set in the input action: `/webhooks/asr`. Add a webhook to process the result and add some user interaction.

In case of a successful recognition, the request payload will look as follows:

```json
{
  "speech": {
    "timeout_reason": "end_on_silence_timeout",
    "results": [
      {
        "confidence": 0.78097206,
        "text": "New York"
      }
    ]
  },
  "dtmf": {
    "digits": null,
    "timed_out": false
  },
  "from": "442039834429",
  "to": "442039061207",
  "uuid": "abfd679701d7f810a0a9a44f8e298b33",
  "conversation_uuid": "CON-64e6c8ef-91a9-4a21-b664-b00a1f41340f",
  "timestamp": "2020-04-17T17:31:53.638Z"
}
```

So you should use the first element of the `speech.results` array for further analysis. To get the weather conditions data, you should make an HTTP `GET` request to the following URL:

```http
GET http://api.weatherstack.com/current?access_key=<key>&query=<location>
```

In the previous code block, `access_key` is your Weatherstack API key and `query` is what the user said (or at least what is expected them to say). Weatherstack provides a lot of interesting data in the response body:

```json
{
  "request": {
    "type": "City",
    "query": "New York, United States of America",
    "language": "en",
    "unit": "m"
  },
  "location": {
    "name": "New York",
    "country": "United States of America",
    "region": "New York",
    "lat": "40.714",
    "lon": "-74.006",
    "timezone_id": "America/New_York",
    "localtime": "2020-04-17 13:33",
    "localtime_epoch": 1587130380,
    "utc_offset": "-4.0"
  },
  "current": {
    "observation_time": "05:33 PM",
    "temperature": 9,
    "weather_code": 113,
    "weather_icons": [
      "http://cdn.worldweatheronline.com/images/wsymbols01_png_64/wsymbol_0001_sunny.png"
    ],
    "weather_descriptions": [
      "Sunny"
    ],
    "wind_speed": 15,
    "wind_degree": 250,
    "wind_dir": "WSW",
    "pressure": 1024,
    "precip": 0,
    "humidity": 28,
    "cloudcover": 0,
    "feelslike": 7,
    "uv_index": 5,
    "visibility": 16,
    "is_day": "yes"
  }
}
```

In the app, you will use just the very simple parameters like `description` (“Sunny”) and `temperature`. It’d be nice to get weather forecast rather than the actual temperature, however since the free Weatherstack account allows to get only `current` conditions - that’s what you will use.

Once you received the response from Weatherstack, you will return a new NCCO with the talk action to say “Today in New York: it’s sunny, 9 degrees Celsius”.

Finally, add the code to handle the ASR callback:

```js
app.post('/webhooks/asr', (request, response) => {

  console.log(request.body)

  if (request.body.speech.results) {

    const city = request.body.speech.results[0].text

    http.get(
      'http://api.weatherstack.com/current?access_key=WEATHERSTACK_API_KEY&query=' +
      city, (weatherResponse) => {
        let data = '';

        weatherResponse.on('data', (chunk) => {
          data += chunk;
        });

        weatherResponse.on('end', () => {
          const weather = JSON.parse(data);

          console.log(weather);

          let location = weather.location.name
          let description = weather.current.weather_descriptions[0]
          let temperature = weather.current.temperature          

          console.log("Location: " + location)
          console.log("Description: " + description)
          console.log("Temperature: " + temperature)

          const ncco = [{
            action: 'talk',
            text: `Today in ${location}: it's ${description}, ${temperature}°C`
          }]

          response.json(ncco)

        });

      }).on("error", (err) => {
      console.log("Error: " + err.message);
    });

  } else {

    const ncco = [{
      action: 'talk',
      text: `Sorry I don't understand you.`
    }]

    response.json(ncco)
  }

})
```
You may add some additional logic to the bot, for example - convert temperature to Fahrenheit if the location is in the US. Add this code snippet before creating the NCCO:

```js
if (weather.location.country == 'United States of America') {
  temperature = Math.round((temperature * 9 / 5) + 32) + '°F'
} else {
  temperature = temperature + '°C'
}
```

and don't forget to remove degrees symbol from the message text since it’s now included to the `temperature` variable value:

```js
text: `Today in ${location}: it's ${description}, ${temperature}`
```

## Create your Node.js server

Finally, write the code to instantiate your Node.js server:

```js
const port = 3000
app.listen(port, () => console.log(`Listening on port ${port}`))
```

## Test your application

1. Run your Node.js application by executing the following command:

```sh
node index.js
```

2. Call your Nexmo number and listen to the welcome message.

3. Say your city name.

4. Hear your actual weather conditions back.

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, you created an application that uses the Voice API to interact with caller by asking and answering with voice messages.

The bot you created was simple, but it was able to listen to the caller and respond with some relevant information. You may use it as a basis for your IVR or some customer self-service app just by adding appropriate business logic relevant to your case and the services you are using.

As you see, automatic speech recognition (ASR) is an effortless way to implement dialogue-style voice bot or IVR (Interactive Voice Response)/IVA (Interactive Voice Assistant) quickly. If you need more flexibility or almost real-time interaction, try our [WebSockets](/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets) feature, which is extremely powerful and can empower some very sophisticated use cases, such as artificial intelligence, analysis and transcription of call audio.


## Where Next?

Here are a few more suggestions of resources that you might enjoy as the next step after this tutorial:

* Learn more about [speech recognition](/voice/voice-api/guides/speech-recognition) feature.
* Make the bot sound more natural by [customizing text-to-speech](/voice/voice-api/guides/customizing-tts) messages with SSML.
* Find out how to get and send back the raw media through [WebSocket](/use-cases/voice-call-websocket-node) connection.

Commit message:

Rebrand Nexmo number (#3334)
* Rebrand Nexmo number

* Fix some merge conflicts

* Change sign up URL

* Whitespace fix

Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@live.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@vonage.com>

_use_cases/en/asr-use-case-voice-bot.md, after:

---
title: Voice Bot
products: voice/voice-api
description: "This tutorial shows you how to use Automatic Speech Recognition to create a voice bot/interactive voice assistant application."
languages:
    - Node
---

# Voice Bot / Interactive Voice Assistant

In this tutorial, you will create a simple bot answering an inbound phone call. The bot will ask for your location and share your actual weather conditions in response. You will implement this using the [express](https://expressjs.com/) web application framework, [Weatherstack](https://weatherstack.com/) API and Vonage Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) feature.

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you need:

* A [Vonage account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-up)
* The [Nexmo CLI](/application/nexmo-cli) installed and set up
* [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) - to make your development web server accessible to Vonage's servers over the Internet
* [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed

## Install the dependencies

Install the [express](https://expressjs.com) web application framework and [body-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/body-parser) packages:

```sh
$ npm install express body-parser
```

## Purchase a Vonage number

If you don't already have one, buy a Vonage number to receive inbound calls.

First, list the numbers available in your country (replace `GB` with your two-character [country code](https://www.iban.com/country-codes)):

```sh
nexmo number:search GB
```

Purchase one of the available numbers. For example, to purchase the number `447700900001`, execute the following command:

```sh
nexmo number:buy 447700900001
```

## Create a Voice API application

Use the CLI to create a Voice API application with the webhooks that will be responsible for answering a call on your Vonage number (`/webhooks/answer`) and logging call events (`/webhooks/events`), respectively.

These webhooks need to be accessible by Vonage's servers, so in this tutorial you will use `ngrok` to expose your local development environment to the public Internet. [This article](/tools/ngrok) explains how to install and run `ngrok`.

Run `ngrok` using the following command:

```sh
ngrok http 3000
```

Make a note of the temporary host name that `ngrok` provides and use it in place of `example.com` in the following command:

```sh
nexmo app:create "Weather Bot" --capabilities=voice --voice-event-url=https://example.com/webhooks/event --voice-answer-url=https://example.com/webhooks/answer --keyfile=private.key
```

The command returns an application ID (which you should make a note of) and your private key information (which you can safely ignore for the purposes of this tutorial).

## Link your number

You need to link your Vonage number to the Voice API application that you just created. Use the following command:

```sh
nexmo link:app NEXMO_NUMBER NEXMO_APPLICATION_ID
```

You're now ready to write your application code.


## Sign up Weatherstack account

In this tutorial, you will use Weatherstack API to get weather info. To make a request, you have to [sign up](https://weatherstack.com/signup/free) for a free account to get the API key.


## Write your answer webhook

When Vonage receives an inbound call on your virtual number, it will make a request to your `/webhooks/answer` route. This route should accept an HTTP `GET` request and return a [Nexmo Call Control Object (NCCO)](/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference) that tells Vonage how to handle the call.

Your NCCO should use the `talk` action to greet the caller, and the `input` action to start listening:

```js
'use strict'

const express = require('express')
const bodyParser = require('body-parser')
const app = express()
const http = require('http')

app.use(bodyParser.json())

app.get('/webhooks/answer', (request, response) => {

  const ncco = [{
      action: 'talk',
      text: 'Thank you for calling Weather Bot! Where are you from?'
    },
    {
      action: 'input',
      eventUrl: [
        `${request.protocol}://${request.get('host')}/webhooks/asr`],
      type: [ "speech" ]
    },
    {
      action: 'talk',
      text: 'Sorry, I don\'t hear you'
    }
  ]

  response.json(ncco)
})
```

## Write your event webhook

Implement a webhook that captures call events so that you can observe the lifecycle of the call in the console:

```js
app.post('/webhooks/events', (request, response) => {
  console.log(request.body)
  response.sendStatus(200);
})
```

Vonage makes a `POST` request to this endpoint every time the call status changes.

## Write your ASR webhook

Speech recognition results will be sent to the specific URL you set in the input action: `/webhooks/asr`. Add a webhook to process the result and add some user interaction.

In case of a successful recognition, the request payload will look as follows:

```json
{
  "speech": {
    "timeout_reason": "end_on_silence_timeout",
    "results": [
      {
        "confidence": 0.78097206,
        "text": "New York"
      }
    ]
  },
  "dtmf": {
    "digits": null,
    "timed_out": false
  },
  "from": "442039834429",
  "to": "442039061207",
  "uuid": "abfd679701d7f810a0a9a44f8e298b33",
  "conversation_uuid": "CON-64e6c8ef-91a9-4a21-b664-b00a1f41340f",
  "timestamp": "2020-04-17T17:31:53.638Z"
}
```

So you should use the first element of the `speech.results` array for further analysis. To get the weather conditions data, you should make an HTTP `GET` request to the following URL:

```http
GET http://api.weatherstack.com/current?access_key=<key>&query=<location>
```

In the previous code block, `access_key` is your Weatherstack API key and `query` is what the user said (or at least what is expected them to say). Weatherstack provides a lot of interesting data in the response body:

```json
{
  "request": {
    "type": "City",
    "query": "New York, United States of America",
    "language": "en",
    "unit": "m"
  },
  "location": {
    "name": "New York",
    "country": "United States of America",
    "region": "New York",
    "lat": "40.714",
    "lon": "-74.006",
    "timezone_id": "America/New_York",
    "localtime": "2020-04-17 13:33",
    "localtime_epoch": 1587130380,
    "utc_offset": "-4.0"
  },
  "current": {
    "observation_time": "05:33 PM",
    "temperature": 9,
    "weather_code": 113,
    "weather_icons": [
      "http://cdn.worldweatheronline.com/images/wsymbols01_png_64/wsymbol_0001_sunny.png"
    ],
    "weather_descriptions": [
      "Sunny"
    ],
    "wind_speed": 15,
    "wind_degree": 250,
    "wind_dir": "WSW",
    "pressure": 1024,
    "precip": 0,
    "humidity": 28,
    "cloudcover": 0,
    "feelslike": 7,
    "uv_index": 5,
    "visibility": 16,
    "is_day": "yes"
  }
}
```

In the app, you will use just the very simple parameters like `description` (“Sunny”) and `temperature`. It’d be nice to get weather forecast rather than the actual temperature, however since the free Weatherstack account allows to get only `current` conditions - that’s what you will use.

Once you received the response from Weatherstack, you will return a new NCCO with the talk action to say “Today in New York: it’s sunny, 9 degrees Celsius”.

Finally, add the code to handle the ASR callback:

```js
app.post('/webhooks/asr', (request, response) => {

  console.log(request.body)

  if (request.body.speech.results) {

    const city = request.body.speech.results[0].text

    http.get(
      'http://api.weatherstack.com/current?access_key=WEATHERSTACK_API_KEY&query=' +
      city, (weatherResponse) => {
        let data = '';

        weatherResponse.on('data', (chunk) => {
          data += chunk;
        });

        weatherResponse.on('end', () => {
          const weather = JSON.parse(data);

          console.log(weather);

          let location = weather.location.name
          let description = weather.current.weather_descriptions[0]
          let temperature = weather.current.temperature          

          console.log("Location: " + location)
          console.log("Description: " + description)
          console.log("Temperature: " + temperature)

          const ncco = [{
            action: 'talk',
            text: `Today in ${location}: it's ${description}, ${temperature}°C`
          }]

          response.json(ncco)

        });

      }).on("error", (err) => {
      console.log("Error: " + err.message);
    });

  } else {

    const ncco = [{
      action: 'talk',
      text: `Sorry I don't understand you.`
    }]

    response.json(ncco)
  }

})
```
You may add some additional logic to the bot, for example - convert temperature to Fahrenheit if the location is in the US. Add this code snippet before creating the NCCO:

```js
if (weather.location.country == 'United States of America') {
  temperature = Math.round((temperature * 9 / 5) + 32) + '°F'
} else {
  temperature = temperature + '°C'
}
```

and don't forget to remove degrees symbol from the message text since it’s now included to the `temperature` variable value:

```js
text: `Today in ${location}: it's ${description}, ${temperature}`
```

## Create your Node.js server

Finally, write the code to instantiate your Node.js server:

```js
const port = 3000
app.listen(port, () => console.log(`Listening on port ${port}`))
```

## Test your application

1. Run your Node.js application by executing the following command:

```sh
node index.js
```

2. Call your Vonage number and listen to the welcome message.

3. Say your city name.

4. Hear your actual weather conditions back.

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, you created an application that uses the Voice API to interact with caller by asking and answering with voice messages.

The bot you created was simple, but it was able to listen to the caller and respond with some relevant information. You may use it as a basis for your IVR or some customer self-service app just by adding appropriate business logic relevant to your case and the services you are using.

As you see, automatic speech recognition (ASR) is an effortless way to implement dialogue-style voice bot or IVR (Interactive Voice Response)/IVA (Interactive Voice Assistant) quickly. If you need more flexibility or almost real-time interaction, try our [WebSockets](/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets) feature, which is extremely powerful and can empower some very sophisticated use cases, such as artificial intelligence, analysis and transcription of call audio.


## Where Next?

Here are a few more suggestions of resources that you might enjoy as the next step after this tutorial:

* Learn more about [speech recognition](/voice/voice-api/guides/speech-recognition) feature.
* Make the bot sound more natural by [customizing text-to-speech](/voice/voice-api/guides/customizing-tts) messages with SSML.
* Find out how to get and send back the raw media through [WebSocket](/use-cases/voice-call-websocket-node) connection.
