_use_cases/en/dispatch-user-fallback.md, before:

---
title: Multi-user, multi-channel failover using Dispatch API
products: dispatch
description: This tutorial describes a use case where a an attempt is made to send a message to a user on their designated channels. If the user does not read the message the process is repeated with the next user on the list. This use case uses the Dispatch API as their is multiple designated channels per user, with failover.
languages:
    - Python
---

# Multi-user, multi-channel failover using Dispatch API

This tutorial shows you how to send a message to a list of users with automatic failover.

The idea is that you have a list of users and each user has two or more designated channels, the last one of which is the final fallback channel. An attempt is made to send the message to the first user in the priority list of users on their designated channels. Each channel is processed in turn, with a suitable failover condition.

If all attempts to have the message read by a user fail, then processing moves to the next user in the priority list.

By way of example, imagine your main server has malfunctioned, you wish to notify a list of system administrators who are on call. Each administrator may have several channels they can be contacted on. The list of users would be processed until at least one of the administrators had read the important message.

## Example scenario

Perhaps the best way to understand this use case is to look at the sample configuration file, `sample.json`:

``` json
{
    "APP": {
        "APP_ID": "abcd1234-8238-42d0-a03a-abcd1234...",
        "PRIVATE_KEY": "private.key"
    },
    "FROM": {
        "MESSENGER": "COMPANY MESSENGER ID",
        "VIBER": "COMPANY VIBER ID",
        "WHATSAPP": "COMPANY WHATSAPP NUMBER",
        "SMS": "COMPANY SMS NAME/NUMBER"
    },
    "USERS": [
        {
            "name": "Tony",
            "channels": [
                {
                    "type": "messenger",
                    "id_num": "USER MESSENGER ID"
                },
                {
                    "type": "sms",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "Michael",
            "channels": [
                {
                    "type": "viber_service_msg",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                },
                {
                    "type": "whatsapp",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                },
                {
                    "type": "sms",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

The most important part of this configuration files is the `USERS` section. Here you have a priority list of users. In this case the application will attempt to send the message to Tony, and if Tony fails to read the message on any of the designated channels within the expiry time, the process is repeated for Michael.

> **NOTE:** The failover condition for each channel of `read` with an expiry time of `600` is currently hardcoded into the application, but could be added to the configuration file (see [case-3](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback/tree/master/case-3) for code on how to do this).

Note that the following conditions apply:

* User must have at least two channels.
* User can mix any number of channels and types as long as there are at least two channels. For example, a user could have 3 SMS numbers plus a Messenger ID.
* The last channel specified for a user will be taken to be the final fallback channel. It is handled slightly differently as it does not have a failover condition associated with it in the workflow model. If this fails the next user in the list will be processed.
* Final fallback channel does not have to be SMS although it typically will be.
* A workflow is created on a per-user basis, but you can specify a unique workflow for each user.
* An attempt is made to apply a workflow to each user in the order in which the users are listed in the configuration file.
* Failover from one channel to the next is automatic and handled transparently by the Dispatch API.

## Source code

The Python source code for this project is available in the community [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback). Three use cases are actually included in the codebase, but this tutorial only describes `case-2`. The code for `case-2` specifically can be found [here](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback/tree/master/case-2). There are two files - the sample configuration file, `sample.json` and the application, `app.py`.

## Prerequisites

1. [Create a Vonage Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-in)
2. [Install Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - required for using the Nexmo Command Line Interface (CLI).
3. [Install the Beta version of the Nexmo CLI](/messages/code-snippets/install-cli)
4. [Know how to test your webhook server locally](/messages/code-snippets/configure-webhooks#testing-locally-via-ngrok)
5. [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/)
6. [Flask installed](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
7. Have accounts for the channels you wish to support such as Facebook, Viber and WhatsApp.

You may also find it useful to review the following overview topics:

* [Dispatch API](/dispatch/overview)
* [Facebook Messenger](/messages/concepts/facebook)
* [Viber](/messages/concepts/viber)
* [WhatsApp](/messages/concepts/whatsapp)

If you plan to test this use case with Facebook Messenger it is recommended that you work through [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info) first.

## The steps

After the prerequisites have been met, the steps are as follows:

1. [Create a Vonage Application](#create-your-nexmo-application)
2. [Get Ngrok up and running](#get-ngrok-up-and-running)
3. [Run your webhook server](#run-your-webhook-server)
4. [Review the application code](#review-the-application-code)
5. [Test the app](#test-the-app)

There are various ways you can achieve the same result with Vonage. This tutorial shows only one specific way to do things, for example you will see how to use the command line to create the application, rather than the Dashboard. Other tutorials demonstrate other ways of doing things.

## Create your Vonage Application

If you have not yet done so, create a new directory for your project, such as `multi-user-dispatch`. Change into this directory.

Use the CLI to create your Vonage application:

``` shell
nexmo app:create "Multi-user Dispatch App" https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/inbound https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/status --keyfile=private.key --type=messages
```

Make a note of the generated Application ID. You can also check this in the [dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/messages/applications).

This command will also create a private key, `private.key` in your current directory.

This command also sets the two webhooks that need to be set. All interaction between your app and Vonage takes place through these webhooks. You must at least acknowledge each of these webhooks in your webhook server.

## Get Ngrok up and running

Make sure you have Ngrok running for testing locally. To start Ngrok type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000
```

To generate a temporary Ngrok URL. If you are a paid subscriber you could type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000 -subdomain=your_domain
```

> **NOTE:** in this case Ngrok will divert the Vonage webhooks you specified when you created your Vonage application to `localhost:9000`.

## Run your webhook server

You need to get your webhook server up and running so that webhooks are acknowledged, and details of sent messages can be logged. Your webhook server would be similar to the following:

``` python
from flask import Flask, request, jsonify
from pprint import pprint

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/webhooks/inbound', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_message():
    print ("** inbound_message **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("inbound_message", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/status', methods=['POST'])
def message_status():
    print ("** message_status **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("message_status", 200)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host="localhost", port=9000)
```

Add this code to a file called `server.py` and save it.

Run it locally with:

``` shell
python3 server.py
```

## Review the application code

For convenience the code is contained in a single file `app.py`. There is only this and your JSON configuration file, `config.json`, which can be created initially by copying `sample.json`.

Most importantly, the configuration file stores the list of users to contact in priority order, plus their designated channels. Each user must have at least two channels in this implementation, but there can be any convenient mix of channels per user. For example, one user might have three SMS numbers, another user might have a Messenger ID, Viber and two additional SMS numbers.

The last channel listed for each user is treated as the final fallback before switching to another user. For each user, each channel will be sent a message using the Dispatch API, with **automatic** failover to the next channel if the message is not read within 600 seconds.

The first part of the application code, `app.py`, reads the configuration file and loads the important variables and data structures. It is assumed that your company will support all four channels supported by the Dispatch API, `messenger`, `viber_service_msg`, `whatsapp` and `sms`, although the target users can be assigned their preferred channels only. Some users for example might only be contactable by SMS.

There is a helper function, `set_field_types`, to manage the fact that some channels use `numbers` and some use `ids`, and Viber which uses both `ids` and `numbers`.

The main functionality for this use case is in the `build_user_workflow` function. This code builds a workflow such as the following:

``` json
{
    "template": "failover",
    "workflow": [
        {
            "from": {
                "type": "messenger",
                "id": "from_messenger"
            },
            "to": {
                "type": "messenger",
                "id": "user_id_num"
            },
            "message": {
                "content": {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "This is a Facebook Messenger message sent using the Dispatch API"
                }
            },
            "failover": {
                "expiry_time": "600",
                "condition_status": "read"
            }
        },
        {
            "from": {
                "type": "viber_service_msg",
                "id": "from_viber"
            },
            "to": {
                "type": "viber_service_msg",
                "number": "user_id_num"
            },
            "message": {
                "content": {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "This is a Viber Service Message sent using the Dispatch API"
                }
            },
            "failover": {
                "expiry_time": "600",
                "condition_status": "read"
            }
        },
        {
            "from": {
                "type": "sms",
                "number": "from_sms"
            },
            "to": {
                "type": "sms",
                "number": "user_id_num"
            },
            "message": {
                "content": {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "This is an SMS sent using the Dispatch API"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

The function `build_user_workflow` also makes sure values read from the configuration file are embedded into the workflow.

You probably noticed that the `expiry_time` and `condition_status` are hardcoded into the workflow as built in `build_user_workflow`. This was done to keep the code as straightforward as possible, but you could add these parameters to the configuration file on a per-channel basis. In this case some users might have a 300 second expiry on some channels, and you could also specify the failover condition of `read` or `delivered` on a per-channel basis. This has been implemented for you in [case-3](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback/tree/master/case-3) but is not described further in this tutorial as all the code is given, along with the modified sample configuration file.

Once the workflow has been built, you use the [Dispatch API](/dispatch/overview) to send the message:

``` python
r = requests.post('https://api.nexmo.com/v0.1/dispatch', headers=headers, data=workflow)
```

A JWT is generated in order to authenticate the API call. This is why you needed to note the `app_id` and `private_key` values when you created your Vonage application. These need to be added to your configuration file.

## Test the app

Copy `sample.json` to `config.json`.

Make sure you have set your appropriate values in `config.json` for parameters such as `app_id`, `private_key` and the details for your various supported channels. Make sure you have configured your user list according to how you want to test things.

> **TIP:** It is worth validating your modified configuration file at this point using a [JSON linter](https://jsonlint.com/).

You can then run the app with:

``` shell
python3 app.py
```

The application will process the configuration file and contact each user in turn until the message has been read.

### SMS

You can use any mobile phone that can receive an SMS to test this tutorial.

### Facebook Messenger

To test with Facebook Messenger there are a few additional steps required. These have been discussed in detail in [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info), so that information has not been replicated here.

### Viber

You need a Viber Service Message ID to test this tutorial with Viber.

### WhatsApp

You need a WhatsApp business account to test this tutorial with WhatsApp. In addition, the target user must be sent a MTM before they can receive messages from your company.

## Summary

In this tutorial you have seen a use case where you can attempt to send a message to a list of users, where each user has multiple channels. The application terminates when the message has been read.

## Further resources

* [The complete source code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback).
* [Dispatch API documentation](/dispatch/overview)
* [Send a WhatsApp MTM](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template)

Commit message:

Update/cli docs (#3806)
* updates to cli documentation

* doc edits batch 2

* cli docs updates - round 3

* fix spelling errors

* update redirects

* Fixing various documentation issues following review.

* update client sdk app to app

* update client sdk app to phone

* update client sdk phone to app

Co-authored-by: superchilled <karl@superchilled.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: Abdul Ajetunmobi <abdul.ajetunmobi@vonage.com>

_use_cases/en/dispatch-user-fallback.md, after:

---
title: Multi-user, multi-channel failover using Dispatch API
products: dispatch
description: This tutorial describes a use case where a an attempt is made to send a message to a user on their designated channels. If the user does not read the message the process is repeated with the next user on the list. This use case uses the Dispatch API as their is multiple designated channels per user, with failover.
languages:
    - Python
---

# Multi-user, multi-channel failover using Dispatch API

This tutorial shows you how to send a message to a list of users with automatic failover.

The idea is that you have a list of users and each user has two or more designated channels, the last one of which is the final fallback channel. An attempt is made to send the message to the first user in the priority list of users on their designated channels. Each channel is processed in turn, with a suitable failover condition.

If all attempts to have the message read by a user fail, then processing moves to the next user in the priority list.

By way of example, imagine your main server has malfunctioned, you wish to notify a list of system administrators who are on call. Each administrator may have several channels they can be contacted on. The list of users would be processed until at least one of the administrators had read the important message.

## Example scenario

Perhaps the best way to understand this use case is to look at the sample configuration file, `sample.json`:

``` json
{
    "APP": {
        "APP_ID": "abcd1234-8238-42d0-a03a-abcd1234...",
        "PRIVATE_KEY": "private.key"
    },
    "FROM": {
        "MESSENGER": "COMPANY MESSENGER ID",
        "VIBER": "COMPANY VIBER ID",
        "WHATSAPP": "COMPANY WHATSAPP NUMBER",
        "SMS": "COMPANY SMS NAME/NUMBER"
    },
    "USERS": [
        {
            "name": "Tony",
            "channels": [
                {
                    "type": "messenger",
                    "id_num": "USER MESSENGER ID"
                },
                {
                    "type": "sms",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "Michael",
            "channels": [
                {
                    "type": "viber_service_msg",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                },
                {
                    "type": "whatsapp",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                },
                {
                    "type": "sms",
                    "id_num": "USER PHONE NUMBER"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

The most important part of this configuration files is the `USERS` section. Here you have a priority list of users. In this case the application will attempt to send the message to Tony, and if Tony fails to read the message on any of the designated channels within the expiry time, the process is repeated for Michael.

> **NOTE:** The failover condition for each channel of `read` with an expiry time of `600` is currently hardcoded into the application, but could be added to the configuration file (see [case-3](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback/tree/master/case-3) for code on how to do this).

Note that the following conditions apply:

* User must have at least two channels.
* User can mix any number of channels and types as long as there are at least two channels. For example, a user could have 3 SMS numbers plus a Messenger ID.
* The last channel specified for a user will be taken to be the final fallback channel. It is handled slightly differently as it does not have a failover condition associated with it in the workflow model. If this fails the next user in the list will be processed.
* Final fallback channel does not have to be SMS although it typically will be.
* A workflow is created on a per-user basis, but you can specify a unique workflow for each user.
* An attempt is made to apply a workflow to each user in the order in which the users are listed in the configuration file.
* Failover from one channel to the next is automatic and handled transparently by the Dispatch API.

## Source code

The Python source code for this project is available in the community [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback). Three use cases are actually included in the codebase, but this tutorial only describes `case-2`. The code for `case-2` specifically can be found [here](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback/tree/master/case-2). There are two files - the sample configuration file, `sample.json` and the application, `app.py`.

## Prerequisites

1. [Create a Vonage Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-in)
2. [Install Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - required for using the Vonage Command Line Interface (CLI).
3. [Install the Vonage CLI](/messages/code-snippets/install-cli)
4. [Know how to test your webhook server locally](/messages/code-snippets/configure-webhooks#testing-locally-via-ngrok)
5. [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/)
6. [Flask installed](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
7. Have accounts for the channels you wish to support such as Facebook, Viber and WhatsApp.

You may also find it useful to review the following overview topics:

* [Dispatch API](/dispatch/overview)
* [Facebook Messenger](/messages/concepts/facebook)
* [Viber](/messages/concepts/viber)
* [WhatsApp](/messages/concepts/whatsapp)

If you plan to test this use case with Facebook Messenger it is recommended that you work through [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info) first.

## The steps

After the prerequisites have been met, the steps are as follows:

1. [Create a Vonage Application](#create-your-nexmo-application)
2. [Get Ngrok up and running](#get-ngrok-up-and-running)
3. [Run your webhook server](#run-your-webhook-server)
4. [Review the application code](#review-the-application-code)
5. [Test the app](#test-the-app)

There are various ways you can achieve the same result with Vonage. This tutorial shows only one specific way to do things, for example you will see how to use the command line to create the application, rather than the Dashboard. Other tutorials demonstrate other ways of doing things.

## Create your Vonage Application

If you have not yet done so, create a new directory for your project, such as `multi-user-dispatch`. Change into this directory.

Use the CLI to create your Vonage application:

``` shell
vonage apps:create "Multi-user Dispatch App" --messages_inbound_url=https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/inbound --messages_status_url=https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/status
```

Make a note of the generated Application ID. You can also check this in the [dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/messages/applications).

This command will also create a private key, `multi_user_dispatch_app.key` in your current directory, as well as update/create `vonage_app.json`.

This command also sets the two webhooks where all interaction takes place between your app and Vonage takes place. You must have a server running and accessible to Vonage at these URLs

## Get Ngrok up and running

Make sure you have Ngrok running for testing locally. To start Ngrok type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000
```

To generate a temporary Ngrok URL. If you are a paid subscriber you could type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000 -subdomain=your_domain
```

> **NOTE:** in this case Ngrok will divert the Vonage webhooks you specified when you created your Vonage application to `localhost:9000`.

## Run your webhook server

You need to get your webhook server up and running so that webhooks are acknowledged, and details of sent messages can be logged. Your webhook server would be similar to the following:

``` python
from flask import Flask, request, jsonify
from pprint import pprint

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/webhooks/inbound', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_message():
    print ("** inbound_message **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("inbound_message", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/status', methods=['POST'])
def message_status():
    print ("** message_status **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("message_status", 200)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host="localhost", port=9000)
```

Add this code to a file called `server.py` and save it.

Run it locally with:

``` shell
python3 server.py
```

## Review the application code

For convenience the code is contained in a single file `app.py`. There is only this and your JSON configuration file, `config.json`, which can be created initially by copying `sample.json`.

Most importantly, the configuration file stores the list of users to contact in priority order, plus their designated channels. Each user must have at least two channels in this implementation, but there can be any convenient mix of channels per user. For example, one user might have three SMS numbers, another user might have a Messenger ID, Viber and two additional SMS numbers.

The last channel listed for each user is treated as the final fallback before switching to another user. For each user, each channel will be sent a message using the Dispatch API, with **automatic** failover to the next channel if the message is not read within 600 seconds.

The first part of the application code, `app.py`, reads the configuration file and loads the important variables and data structures. It is assumed that your company will support all four channels supported by the Dispatch API, `messenger`, `viber_service_msg`, `whatsapp` and `sms`, although the target users can be assigned their preferred channels only. Some users for example might only be contactable by SMS.

There is a helper function, `set_field_types`, to manage the fact that some channels use `numbers` and some use `ids`, and Viber which uses both `ids` and `numbers`.

The main functionality for this use case is in the `build_user_workflow` function. This code builds a workflow such as the following:

``` json
{
    "template": "failover",
    "workflow": [
        {
            "from": {
                "type": "messenger",
                "id": "from_messenger"
            },
            "to": {
                "type": "messenger",
                "id": "user_id_num"
            },
            "message": {
                "content": {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "This is a Facebook Messenger message sent using the Dispatch API"
                }
            },
            "failover": {
                "expiry_time": "600",
                "condition_status": "read"
            }
        },
        {
            "from": {
                "type": "viber_service_msg",
                "id": "from_viber"
            },
            "to": {
                "type": "viber_service_msg",
                "number": "user_id_num"
            },
            "message": {
                "content": {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "This is a Viber Service Message sent using the Dispatch API"
                }
            },
            "failover": {
                "expiry_time": "600",
                "condition_status": "read"
            }
        },
        {
            "from": {
                "type": "sms",
                "number": "from_sms"
            },
            "to": {
                "type": "sms",
                "number": "user_id_num"
            },
            "message": {
                "content": {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "This is an SMS sent using the Dispatch API"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

The function `build_user_workflow` also makes sure values read from the configuration file are embedded into the workflow.

You probably noticed that the `expiry_time` and `condition_status` are hardcoded into the workflow as built in `build_user_workflow`. This was done to keep the code as straightforward as possible, but you could add these parameters to the configuration file on a per-channel basis. In this case some users might have a 300 second expiry on some channels, and you could also specify the failover condition of `read` or `delivered` on a per-channel basis. This has been implemented for you in [case-3](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback/tree/master/case-3) but is not described further in this tutorial as all the code is given, along with the modified sample configuration file.

Once the workflow has been built, you use the [Dispatch API](/dispatch/overview) to send the message:

``` python
r = requests.post('https://api.nexmo.com/v0.1/dispatch', headers=headers, data=workflow)
```

A JWT is generated in order to authenticate the API call. This is why you needed to note the `app_id` and `private_key` values when you created your Vonage application. These need to be added to your configuration file.

## Test the app

Copy `sample.json` to `config.json`.

Make sure you have set your appropriate values in `config.json` for parameters such as `app_id`, `private_key` and the details for your various supported channels. Make sure you have configured your user list according to how you want to test things.

> **TIP:** It is worth validating your modified configuration file at this point using a [JSON linter](https://jsonlint.com/).

You can then run the app with:

``` shell
python3 app.py
```

The application will process the configuration file and contact each user in turn until the message has been read.

### SMS

You can use any mobile phone that can receive an SMS to test this tutorial.

### Facebook Messenger

To test with Facebook Messenger there are a few additional steps required. These have been discussed in detail in [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info), so that information has not been replicated here.

### Viber

You need a Viber Service Message ID to test this tutorial with Viber.

### WhatsApp

You need a WhatsApp business account to test this tutorial with WhatsApp. In addition, the target user must be sent a MTM before they can receive messages from your company.

## Summary

In this tutorial you have seen a use case where you can attempt to send a message to a list of users, where each user has multiple channels. The application terminates when the message has been read.

## Further resources

* [The complete source code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/dispatch-user-fallback).
* [Dispatch API documentation](/dispatch/overview)
* [Send a WhatsApp MTM](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template)
