_use_cases/en/fbm-product-info.md, before:

---
title: Receive product information automatically via Facebook Messenger
products: messages
description: This tutorial looks at a use case where the user receives relevant product information automatically via Facebook Messenger, without the need for support personnel.
languages:
    - Python
---

# Receive product information automatically via Facebook Messenger

This tutorial shows you how to provide a user with relevant product information automatically via Facebook Messenger.

In this use case the user greets the company via the company's Facebook Page. A message is automatically sent back to the user. Using keyword matching the user can receive tailored product and service information.

> **NOTE:** This tutorial assumes you have already created a Facebook Profile and a Facebook Page.

## Source code

The source code for this project is available in the community [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/fbm-product-info).

## Prerequisites

1. [Create a Vonage Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-in)
2. [Install Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - required for using the Nexmo Command Line Interface (CLI).
3. [Install the Beta version of the Nexmo CLI](/messages/code-snippets/install-cli)
4. [Know how to test your webhook server locally](/messages/code-snippets/configure-webhooks#testing-locally-via-ngrok)
5. [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/)
6. [Flask installed](http://flask.pocoo.org/)

## The steps

After the prerequisites have been met, the steps are as follows:

1. [Create a Vonage Application](#create-your-nexmo-application)
2. [Link your Vonage application to your Facebook page](#link-your-application-to-your-facebook-page)
3. [Get Ngrok up and running](#get-ngrok-up-and-running)
4. [Write your basic application](#write-your-basic-application)
5. [Interact with your Facebook Page](#interact-with-your-facebook-page)
6. [Minimal client for sending Facebook Messenger messages using Python](#minimal-client-for-sending-facebook-messenger-messages-using-python)
7. [The use case revisited](#the-use-case-revisited)
8. [An implementation](#an-implementation)

There are various ways you can achieve the same result with Vonage. This tutorial shows only one specific way to do things, for example you will see how to use the command line to create the application, rather than the Dashboard. Other tutorials demonstrate other ways of doing things.

## Create your Vonage Application

If you have not yet done so, create a new directory for your project, such as `fbm-app`. Change into this directory.

Use the CLI to create your Vonage application:

``` shell
nexmo app:create "FBM App" https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/inbound https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/status --keyfile=private.key --type=messages
```

Make a note of the generated Application ID. You can also check this in the [dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/messages/applications).

This command will also create a private key, `private.key` in your current directory.

This command also sets the two webhooks that need to be set. All interaction between your app and Vonage takes place through these webhooks. You must at least acknowledge each of these webhooks in your app.

## Link your application to your Facebook Page

```partial
source: _partials/reusable/link-facebook-to-nexmo.md
```

## Get Ngrok up and running

Make sure you have Ngrok running for testing locally. To start Ngrok type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000
```

To generate a temporary Ngrok URL. If you are a paid subscriber you could type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000 -subdomain=your_domain
```

> Note in this case Ngrok will divert the Vonage webhooks you specified when you created your Vonage application to `localhost:9000`.

## Write your basic application

So in the simplest case your application would look like the following:

``` python
from flask import Flask, request, jsonify
from pprint import pprint

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/inbound', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_message():
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("200")

@app.route('/status', methods=['POST'])
def message_status():
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("200")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host="localhost", port=9000)
```

Add this code to a file called `app1.py` and save it.

Run it locally with:

``` shell
python3 app1.py
```

Your base application is now up and running and ready to log events.

## Interact with your Facebook Page

Now that your base app is up and running, you can send a message to your Facebook Page and then check that the message is logged. So, if you send a basic message to your Facebook Page using Messenger you will see logging such as the following:

```
{'direction': 'inbound',
 'from': {'id': '1234567890123456', 'type': 'messenger'},
 'message': {'content': {'text': 'Hello Mr. Cat', 'type': 'text'}},
 'message_uuid': 'da13a7b0-307c-4029-bbcd-ec2a391873de',
 'timestamp': '2019-04-09T12:26:47.242Z',
 'to': {'id': '543210987654321', 'type': 'messenger'}}
127.0.0.1 - - [09/Apr/2019 13:26:58] "POST /inbound HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

There is some important information here which you can use to build out your application to make it more useful.

Field | Description
--- | ---
`from` | The Facebook ID of the person sending a message to your page.
`to` | The Facebook ID of your page (the page the person is sending a message to).
`message` | The message being sent.

You can see that the message is a JSON object. You can extract the message text from this object.

Note that it is useful to record both the Facebook ID of your page (which you might not have known), and the Facebook ID of the user sending you a message. Note the Facebook ID is especially useful if your application is handling multiple Facebook Pages.

## Minimal client for sending Facebook Messenger messages using Python

Currently, Vonage does not officially support Messages and Dispatch API in the Python Server SDK, but our REST API is fully supported and the [Python code is provided](https://github.com/nexmo-community/fbm-product-info/blob/master/FBMClient/FBMClient.py) in the project for you in a reusable class. As the code is provided we will not cover it further in this tutorial.

## The use case revisited

It's time to look into this use case in more detail so you can more effectively build out your application.

Imagine a user messages your Facebook Page via Messenger with a message such as "Hi". However, due to time zones you are not available to respond to the message - this may leave the user feeling dejected. On the other hand it would be great if you could automatically respond with useful information. For example, to a message such as "Hi" you might respond with "Welcome to T's Cat Supplies. Here are our main product categories: toys, food, medicine, bling."

Using a Python construct such as `if keyword in msg` you can detect keywords and send material based on that. For example, if a user sends in a message like "Hi my tanks need sorting" you might detect the word `tank` and send information on your tank cleaning services. Or if you receive a message such as "Hi, I think I need a crane to lift our pipeline sections." You could send information on your crane hire services. Where keywords are not detected it is a straightforward matter to send a generic message back to the user to help orientate them.

This auto-response feature is useful as some companies have hundreds of products and services.

Another feature that is useful is the ability to switch auto-response off, perhaps to deal directly with a human. You could build in commands such as `auto: off` and `auto: on` to control how your customer interacts with your Facebook Page.

In the following sections you will see how to implement this use case.

## An implementation

One of the useful data structures in implementing this use case is the Python dictionary. You can see an example here:

``` python
cats_dict = {
    'other': 'Our products: toys, food, meds, and bling',
    'toys': 'More info on cat toys here https://bit.ly/abc',
    'food': 'More info on cat food here https://bit.ly/def',
    'meds': 'More info on cat meds here https://bit.ly/ghi',
    'bling': 'More info on cat bling here https://bit.ly/jkl'
}
```

To put this into perspective review the following code:

``` python
class ProductMatcher:

    auto_mode = True

    cats_dict = {
        'other': 'Our products: toys, food, meds, and bling',
        'toys': 'More info on cat toys here https://bit.ly/abc',
        'food': 'More info on cat food here https://bit.ly/def',
        'meds': 'More info on cat meds here https://bit.ly/ghi',
        'bling': 'More info on cat bling here https://bit.ly/jkl'
    }

...

    def product_matcher(self, fb_sender, user, msg):
        product = 'other'
        msg = msg.lower().strip()
        if self.auto_mode:
            if "auto: off" in msg:
                self.auto_mode = False
                self.fbm.send_message(fb_sender, user, "Auto mode is off")
                return
            for k in self.cats_dict.keys():
                if k in msg:
                    product = k
                    break
            self.fbm.send_message(fb_sender, user, self.cats_dict[product])
        if "auto: on" in msg:
                self.auto_mode = True
                self.fbm.send_message(fb_sender, user, "Auto mode is on")
        return product
```

If the user sends a message via Messenger, and there's no human to respond, a menu is sent back to the user. In the user's message the product is extracted and the appropriate message sent. This code takes a specific approach, but hopefully it indicates the potential.

You might be wondering would this get annoying for the user if they want to talk to a real person? However, the auto-respond could be disabled once you are online and able to take messages. The code allows the user to use the commands `auto: off` and `auto: on` to control interaction. This could also be controlled by the channel manager.

In the above code the product the user is interested in is also returned. This could be used if, for example, you wanted to log the user and their product choice to a database. You could also look up a user in the database to find out if they are a new customer or they have had dealings with the company before.

## Summary

In this tutorial you have seen a use case where the user can receive product information automatically via Facebook Messenger. This was based around keyword matching. The user also had the ability to toggle auto-response mode as required.

## Further resources

* The complete [source code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/fbm-product-info).
* Messages API [documentation](/messages/overview)

Commit message:

Update/cli docs (#3806)
* updates to cli documentation

* doc edits batch 2

* cli docs updates - round 3

* fix spelling errors

* update redirects

* Fixing various documentation issues following review.

* update client sdk app to app

* update client sdk app to phone

* update client sdk phone to app

Co-authored-by: superchilled <karl@superchilled.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: Abdul Ajetunmobi <abdul.ajetunmobi@vonage.com>

_use_cases/en/fbm-product-info.md, after:

---
title: Receive product information automatically via Facebook Messenger
products: messages
description: This tutorial looks at a use case where the user receives relevant product information automatically via Facebook Messenger, without the need for support personnel.
languages:
    - Python
---

# Receive product information automatically via Facebook Messenger

This tutorial shows you how to provide a user with relevant product information automatically via Facebook Messenger.

In this use case the user greets the company via the company's Facebook Page. A message is automatically sent back to the user. Using keyword matching the user can receive tailored product and service information.

> **NOTE:** This tutorial assumes you have already created a Facebook Profile and a Facebook Page.

## Source code

The source code for this project is available in the community [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/fbm-product-info).

## Prerequisites

1. [Create a Vonage Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-in)
2. [Install Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - required for using the Vonage Command Line Interface (CLI).
3. [Install the Vonage CLI](/messages/code-snippets/install-cli)
4. [Know how to test your webhook server locally](/messages/code-snippets/configure-webhooks#testing-locally-via-ngrok)
5. [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/)
6. [Flask installed](http://flask.pocoo.org/)

## The steps

After the prerequisites have been met, the steps are as follows:

1. [Create a Vonage Application](#create-your-nexmo-application)
2. [Link your Vonage application to your Facebook page](#link-your-application-to-your-facebook-page)
3. [Get Ngrok up and running](#get-ngrok-up-and-running)
4. [Write your basic application](#write-your-basic-application)
5. [Interact with your Facebook Page](#interact-with-your-facebook-page)
6. [Minimal client for sending Facebook Messenger messages using Python](#minimal-client-for-sending-facebook-messenger-messages-using-python)
7. [The use case revisited](#the-use-case-revisited)
8. [An implementation](#an-implementation)

There are various ways you can achieve the same result with Vonage. This tutorial shows only one specific way to do things, for example you will see how to use the command line to create the application, rather than the Dashboard. Other tutorials demonstrate other ways of doing things.

## Create your Vonage Application

If you have not yet done so, create a new directory for your project, such as `fbm-app`. Change into this directory.

Use the CLI to create your Vonage application:

``` shell
vonage apps:create "FBM App" --messages_inbound_url=https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/inbound --messages_status_url=https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/status
```

Make a note of the generated Application ID. You can also check this in the [dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/messages/applications).

This command will also create a private key, `fbm_app.key` in your current directory, as well as update/create `vonage_app.json`.

This command also sets the two webhooks where all interaction takes place between your app and Vonage takes place. You must have a server running and accessible to Vonage at these URLs.

## Link your application to your Facebook Page

```partial
source: _partials/reusable/link-facebook-to-nexmo.md
```

## Get Ngrok up and running

Make sure you have Ngrok running for testing locally. To start Ngrok type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000
```

To generate a temporary Ngrok URL. If you are a paid subscriber you could type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000 -subdomain=your_domain
```

> Note in this case Ngrok will divert the Vonage webhooks you specified when you created your Vonage application to `localhost:9000`.

## Write your basic application

So in the simplest case your application would look like the following:

``` python
from flask import Flask, request, jsonify
from pprint import pprint

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/inbound', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_message():
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("200")

@app.route('/status', methods=['POST'])
def message_status():
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("200")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host="localhost", port=9000)
```

Add this code to a file called `app1.py` and save it.

Run it locally with:

``` shell
python3 app1.py
```

Your base application is now up and running and ready to log events.

## Interact with your Facebook Page

Now that your base app is up and running, you can send a message to your Facebook Page and then check that the message is logged. So, if you send a basic message to your Facebook Page using Messenger you will see logging such as the following:

```
{'direction': 'inbound',
 'from': {'id': '1234567890123456', 'type': 'messenger'},
 'message': {'content': {'text': 'Hello Mr. Cat', 'type': 'text'}},
 'message_uuid': 'da13a7b0-307c-4029-bbcd-ec2a391873de',
 'timestamp': '2019-04-09T12:26:47.242Z',
 'to': {'id': '543210987654321', 'type': 'messenger'}}
127.0.0.1 - - [09/Apr/2019 13:26:58] "POST /inbound HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

There is some important information here which you can use to build out your application to make it more useful.

Field | Description
--- | ---
`from` | The Facebook ID of the person sending a message to your page.
`to` | The Facebook ID of your page (the page the person is sending a message to).
`message` | The message being sent.

You can see that the message is a JSON object. You can extract the message text from this object.

Note that it is useful to record both the Facebook ID of your page (which you might not have known), and the Facebook ID of the user sending you a message. Note the Facebook ID is especially useful if your application is handling multiple Facebook Pages.

## Minimal client for sending Facebook Messenger messages using Python

Currently, Vonage does not officially support Messages and Dispatch API in the Python Server SDK, but our REST API is fully supported and the [Python code is provided](https://github.com/nexmo-community/fbm-product-info/blob/master/FBMClient/FBMClient.py) in the project for you in a reusable class. As the code is provided we will not cover it further in this tutorial.

## The use case revisited

It's time to look into this use case in more detail so you can more effectively build out your application.

Imagine a user messages your Facebook Page via Messenger with a message such as "Hi". However, due to time zones you are not available to respond to the message - this may leave the user feeling dejected. On the other hand it would be great if you could automatically respond with useful information. For example, to a message such as "Hi" you might respond with "Welcome to T's Cat Supplies. Here are our main product categories: toys, food, medicine, bling."

Using a Python construct such as `if keyword in msg` you can detect keywords and send material based on that. For example, if a user sends in a message like "Hi my tanks need sorting" you might detect the word `tank` and send information on your tank cleaning services. Or if you receive a message such as "Hi, I think I need a crane to lift our pipeline sections." You could send information on your crane hire services. Where keywords are not detected it is a straightforward matter to send a generic message back to the user to help orientate them.

This auto-response feature is useful as some companies have hundreds of products and services.

Another feature that is useful is the ability to switch auto-response off, perhaps to deal directly with a human. You could build in commands such as `auto: off` and `auto: on` to control how your customer interacts with your Facebook Page.

In the following sections you will see how to implement this use case.

## An implementation

One of the useful data structures in implementing this use case is the Python dictionary. You can see an example here:

``` python
cats_dict = {
    'other': 'Our products: toys, food, meds, and bling',
    'toys': 'More info on cat toys here https://bit.ly/abc',
    'food': 'More info on cat food here https://bit.ly/def',
    'meds': 'More info on cat meds here https://bit.ly/ghi',
    'bling': 'More info on cat bling here https://bit.ly/jkl'
}
```

To put this into perspective review the following code:

``` python
class ProductMatcher:

    auto_mode = True

    cats_dict = {
        'other': 'Our products: toys, food, meds, and bling',
        'toys': 'More info on cat toys here https://bit.ly/abc',
        'food': 'More info on cat food here https://bit.ly/def',
        'meds': 'More info on cat meds here https://bit.ly/ghi',
        'bling': 'More info on cat bling here https://bit.ly/jkl'
    }

...

    def product_matcher(self, fb_sender, user, msg):
        product = 'other'
        msg = msg.lower().strip()
        if self.auto_mode:
            if "auto: off" in msg:
                self.auto_mode = False
                self.fbm.send_message(fb_sender, user, "Auto mode is off")
                return
            for k in self.cats_dict.keys():
                if k in msg:
                    product = k
                    break
            self.fbm.send_message(fb_sender, user, self.cats_dict[product])
        if "auto: on" in msg:
                self.auto_mode = True
                self.fbm.send_message(fb_sender, user, "Auto mode is on")
        return product
```

If the user sends a message via Messenger, and there's no human to respond, a menu is sent back to the user. In the user's message the product is extracted and the appropriate message sent. This code takes a specific approach, but hopefully it indicates the potential.

You might be wondering would this get annoying for the user if they want to talk to a real person? However, the auto-respond could be disabled once you are online and able to take messages. The code allows the user to use the commands `auto: off` and `auto: on` to control interaction. This could also be controlled by the channel manager.

In the above code the product the user is interested in is also returned. This could be used if, for example, you wanted to log the user and their product choice to a database. You could also look up a user in the database to find out if they are a new customer or they have had dealings with the company before.

## Summary

In this tutorial you have seen a use case where the user can receive product information automatically via Facebook Messenger. This was based around keyword matching. The user also had the ability to toggle auto-response mode as required.

## Further resources

* The complete [source code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/fbm-product-info).
* Messages API [documentation](/messages/overview)
