_use_cases/en/real-time-feed.md, before:

---
title: Real-time data feed into multiple channels using Messages API
products: messages
description: This tutorial describes a use case where the user receives real-time data into their channel. Channels supported are Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Viber and SMS.
languages:
    - Python
---

# Real-time data feed into multiple channels using Messages API

This tutorial shows you how to feed data into multiple channels in real-time using the Messages API. This tutorial demonstrates sending data into all supported channels. Information on testing all channels is provided. If you are interested in testing using Facebook Messenger, it is recommended you work through [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info) first, as that tutorial contains lots of Facebook specific information. To test WhatsApp and Viber you will need business accounts with those providers.

## Example scenario

In this tutorial you will look sending real-time stock quotes to a user on their channel of choice. A user can register to receive data on any supported channel of their choice. For example, they could receive the stock quotes via their mobile phone using SMS, or through Facebook Messenger. WhatsApp and Viber are also supported. For Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, and SMS users can register their interest in a particular stock. However, Viber does not support inbound messages to a business, so users would have to register to receive the messages via a website in order to receive data. Also, with WhatsApp there is an additional complication which is that WhatsApp requires a business to send the user [an MTM](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template) before the user can agree to receive messages.

> Please note that only simulated stock prices are used in this tutorial.

## Source code

The Python source code for this project is available in the Nexmo Community [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed). Of particular interest is a generic client that provides a convenient way to send a message to any supported channel with a single method call. You will also see Python code to handle inbound messages on WhatsApp, SMS and Messenger.

## Prerequisites

1. [Create a Nexmo Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-in)
2. [Install Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - required for using the Nexmo Command Line Interface (CLI).
3. [Install the Beta version of the Nexmo CLI](/messages/code-snippets/install-cli)
4. [Know how to test your webhook server locally](/messages/code-snippets/configure-webhooks#testing-locally-via-ngrok)
5. [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/)
6. [Flask installed](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
7. Have accounts for the channels you wish to support such as Facebook, Viber and WhatsApp.

You may also find it useful to review the following overview topics:

* [Facebook Messenger](/messages/concepts/facebook)
* [Viber](/messages/concepts/viber)
* [WhatsApp](/messages/concepts/whatsapp)

If you plan to test this use case with Facebook Messenger it is recommended that you work through [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info) first.

## The steps

After the prerequisites have been met, the steps are as follows:

1. [Create a Nexmo Application](#create-your-nexmo-application)
2. [Get Ngrok up and running](#get-ngrok-up-and-running)
3. [Set your SMS webhooks in Dashboard](#set-your-sms-webhooks-in-dashboard)
4. [Write your basic application](#write-your-basic-application)
5. [Send in an SMS](#send-in-an-sms)
6. [Review the generic client code](#generic-client)
7. [The use case revisited](#the-use-case-revisited)
8. [Testing the app](#testing-the-app)

There are various ways you can achieve the same result with Nexmo. This tutorial shows only one specific way to do things, for example you will see how to use the command line to create the application, rather than the Dashboard. Other tutorials demonstrate other ways of doing things.

## Create your Nexmo Application

If you have not yet done so, create a new directory for your project, such as `real-time-app`. Change into this directory.

Use the CLI to create your Nexmo application:

``` shell
nexmo app:create "Real-time App" https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/inbound https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/status --keyfile=private.key --type=messages
```

Make a note of the generated Application ID. You can also check this in the [Nexmo Dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/messages/applications).

This command will also create a private key, `private.key` in your current directory.

This command also sets the two webhooks that need to be set. All interaction between your App and Nexmo takes place through these webhooks. You must at least acknowledge each of these webhooks in your app.

## Get Ngrok up and running

Make sure you have Ngrok running for testing locally. To start Ngrok type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000
```

To generate a temporary Ngrok URL. If you are a paid subscriber you could type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000 -subdomain=your_domain
```

> Note in this case Ngrok will divert the Nexmo webhooks you specified when you created your Nexmo application to `localhost:9000`.

## Set your SMS webhooks in Dashboard

In Nexmo Dashboard go to [account settings](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/settings). In here you can set your account-level SMS webhooks:

Webhook | URL
---|---
Delivery receipt | https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/delivery-receipt
Inbound SMS | https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/inbound-sms

Note you will need to replace "abcd1234" in the webhook URLs by your own information. If you have a paid Ngrok account that can be your custom domain.

> **NOTE:** You need to do this step as Messages and Dispatch applications currently only support outbound SMS, not inbound SMS. For this reason you will use the account-level SMS webhooks to support inbound SMS, but you will use the Messages API for sending outbound SMS.

## Write your basic application

In the simplest case your application would log out inbound message information, as well as delivery receipt and message status data. This would look like the following:

``` python
from flask import Flask, request, jsonify
from pprint import pprint

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/webhooks/inbound', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_message():
    print ("** inbound_message **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("inbound_message", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/status', methods=['POST'])
def message_status():
    print ("** message_status **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("message_status", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/inbound-sms', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_sms():
    print ("** inbound_sms **")
    values = request.values
    pprint(values)
    return ("inbound_sms", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/delivery-receipt', methods=['POST'])
def delivery_receipt():
    print ("** delivery_receipt **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("delivery_receipt", 200)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host="localhost", port=9000)
```

Add this code to a file called `app1.py` and save it.

Run it locally with:

``` shell
python3 app1.py
```

## Send in an SMS

Your base application is now up and running and ready to log events. You can test this basic application by sending an SMS into any Nexmo Number linked to any Voice app, where the Nexmo Number has voice and SMS capabilities. If you don't have a voice application, and are not sure how to create one, you can review [this information](/application/code-snippets/create-application). The reason you need to go through this additional step is that Messages and Dispatch API does not currently support inbound SMS, only outbound SMS, so you have to use the account-level webhook to receive inbound SMS notifications.

When you examine the tracing information produced when you send in an SMS you see something similar to the following:

```
** inbound_sms **
{'keyword': 'MESSAGE',
 'message-timestamp': '2019-04-16 13:55:21',
 'messageId': '1700000240EAA6B6',
 'msisdn': '447700000001',
 'text': 'Message from Tony',
 'to': '447520635498',
 'type': 'text'}
```

## Generic client

Currently Nexmo does not officially support Messages and Dispatch API in the Python Server SDK, but our REST API is supported (Beta) and the [Python code is provided](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/Client/Client.py) in the project for you in a reusable class. This class allows sending of a message using the Messages API to any of its supported channels. The code is worth taking a quick look at:

``` python
    def send_message (self, channel_type, sender, recipient, msg):
        if channel_type == 'messenger':
            from_field = "id"
            to_field = "id"
        elif channel_type == 'whatsapp' or channel_type == "sms": 
            from_field = "number"
            to_field = "number"
        elif channel_type == 'viber_service_msg':
            from_field = "id"
            to_field = "number"
               
        data_body = json.dumps({
            "from": {
	        "type": channel_type,
	        from_field: sender
            },
            "to": {
	        "type": channel_type,
	        to_field: recipient
            },
            "message": {
	        "content": {
	            "type": "text",
	            "text": msg
	        }
            }
        })
...
```

What happens is the body is built for you based on the channel type. This is because the details are slightly different between the channels - for example, Facebook uses IDs, whereas WhatsApp and SMS only used numbers. Viber uses an ID and a number. The code then goes on to use the Messages API to send the message for you. This is the basis of the use case, with a few extra bits to allow for user sign up.

## The use case revisited

It's time to look into this use case in more detail so you can more effectively build out your application.

For channels that support inbound messages (Messenger, WhatsApp and SMS) you can allow the user to send in a message to sign up. For Viber this will have to be done via another part of the web app. Typically you would provide a form where the user can sign up to the real-time feed.

If a user sends in an inbound message such as "Hi", the app will respond with a help message. In our simple case this is "Send us a message with MSFT or GOOGL in it for real-time data". This sign up will then be acknowledged by another message confirming which feed you have subscribed to.

After this you will then receive a real-time price on your selected stock symbol. If you want to additionally sign up on another channel you are free to do so. Also, if you want to change your stock symbol simply send in a message with the new symbol, it will be acknowledged, and the data stream will change accordingly.

The core code to implement this is located in the function `proc_inbound_msg` in `app_funcs.py`.

For WhatsApp you would have an additional step where you need to send an [MTM message](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template) to the user before the user can sign up to receive data. For simplicity this is provided as a [separate piece of code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/send_whatsapp_mtm.py).

## Testing the app

You can run the app with:

``` shell
python3 app.py APP_ID
```

Where `APP_ID` is the Nexmo Application ID of your Messages application.

### SMS

To test with SMS simply send in an SMS as you did before. You will receive a help message. Send a message back with the stock symbol of either `MSFT` or `GOOGL`. You will then periodically receive a (simulated) price update. You currently have to exit the app to stop receiving these, but it would be a simple matter to add in the ability to switch these messages off, as was done in [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info).

### Facebook Messenger

To test with Facebook Messenger there are a few additional steps required. These have been discussed in detail in [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info), so that information has not been replicated here.

### Viber

You would need a valid Viber business account to test this out. You would have part of your web app that would request the user [supplies their phone number and the symbol](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/app_funcs.py#L21-L29) they are interested in. The user could then be sent an initial message which they would have the ability to receive or decline. A [small test program](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/test-viber.py) is provided to demonstrate testing the generic client with Viber.

### WhatsApp

WhatsApp requires an additional step to test fully. You would need to send the user a WhatsApp MTM (template) before they can receive any messages. The code to do this has not been described in this tutorial but sample code is available [here](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/send_whatsapp_mtm.py). You can use then use the generic client provided in this tutorial to send subsequent WhatsApp messages.

## Summary

In this tutorial you have seen a use case where the user can receive real-time data on any channel supported by the Messages API.

## Further resources

* [The complete source code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed).
* [Messages API documentation](/messages/overview)
* [Send a WhatsApp MTM](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template)

Commit message:

Rebrand Nexmo number (#3334)
* Rebrand Nexmo number

* Fix some merge conflicts

* Change sign up URL

* Whitespace fix

Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@live.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: Tony Bedford <tony.bedford@vonage.com>

_use_cases/en/real-time-feed.md, after:

---
title: Real-time data feed into multiple channels using Messages API
products: messages
description: This tutorial describes a use case where the user receives real-time data into their channel. Channels supported are Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Viber and SMS.
languages:
    - Python
---

# Real-time data feed into multiple channels using Messages API

This tutorial shows you how to feed data into multiple channels in real-time using the Messages API. This tutorial demonstrates sending data into all supported channels. Information on testing all channels is provided. If you are interested in testing using Facebook Messenger, it is recommended you work through [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info) first, as that tutorial contains lots of Facebook specific information. To test WhatsApp and Viber you will need business accounts with those providers.

## Example scenario

In this tutorial you will look sending real-time stock quotes to a user on their channel of choice. A user can register to receive data on any supported channel of their choice. For example, they could receive the stock quotes via their mobile phone using SMS, or through Facebook Messenger. WhatsApp and Viber are also supported. For Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, and SMS users can register their interest in a particular stock. However, Viber does not support inbound messages to a business, so users would have to register to receive the messages via a website in order to receive data. Also, with WhatsApp there is an additional complication which is that WhatsApp requires a business to send the user [an MTM](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template) before the user can agree to receive messages.

> Please note that only simulated stock prices are used in this tutorial.

## Source code

The Python source code for this project is available in the Vonage Community [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed). Of particular interest is a generic client that provides a convenient way to send a message to any supported channel with a single method call. You will also see Python code to handle inbound messages on WhatsApp, SMS and Messenger.

## Prerequisites

1. [Create a Vonage Account](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/sign-in)
2. [Install Node JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - required for using the Nexmo Command Line Interface (CLI).
3. [Install the Beta version of the Nexmo CLI](/messages/code-snippets/install-cli)
4. [Know how to test your webhook server locally](/messages/code-snippets/configure-webhooks#testing-locally-via-ngrok)
5. [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/)
6. [Flask installed](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
7. Have accounts for the channels you wish to support such as Facebook, Viber and WhatsApp.

You may also find it useful to review the following overview topics:

* [Facebook Messenger](/messages/concepts/facebook)
* [Viber](/messages/concepts/viber)
* [WhatsApp](/messages/concepts/whatsapp)

If you plan to test this use case with Facebook Messenger it is recommended that you work through [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info) first.

## The steps

After the prerequisites have been met, the steps are as follows:

1. [Create a Vonage Application](#create-your-nexmo-application)
2. [Get Ngrok up and running](#get-ngrok-up-and-running)
3. [Set your SMS webhooks in Dashboard](#set-your-sms-webhooks-in-dashboard)
4. [Write your basic application](#write-your-basic-application)
5. [Send in an SMS](#send-in-an-sms)
6. [Review the generic client code](#generic-client)
7. [The use case revisited](#the-use-case-revisited)
8. [Testing the app](#testing-the-app)

There are various ways you can achieve the same result with Vonage. This tutorial shows only one specific way to do things, for example you will see how to use the command line to create the application, rather than the Dashboard. Other tutorials demonstrate other ways of doing things.

## Create your Vonage Application

If you have not yet done so, create a new directory for your project, such as `real-time-app`. Change into this directory.

Use the CLI to create your Vonage application:

``` shell
nexmo app:create "Real-time App" https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/inbound https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/status --keyfile=private.key --type=messages
```

Make a note of the generated Application ID. You can also check this in the [dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/messages/applications).

This command will also create a private key, `private.key` in your current directory.

This command also sets the two webhooks that need to be set. All interaction between your App and Vonage takes place through these webhooks. You must at least acknowledge each of these webhooks in your app.

## Get Ngrok up and running

Make sure you have Ngrok running for testing locally. To start Ngrok type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000
```

To generate a temporary Ngrok URL. If you are a paid subscriber you could type:

``` shell
ngrok http 9000 -subdomain=your_domain
```

> Note in this case Ngrok will divert the Vonage webhooks you specified when you created your Vonage application to `localhost:9000`.

## Set your SMS webhooks in Dashboard

In the Dashboard go to [account settings](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/settings). In here you can set your account-level SMS webhooks:

Webhook | URL
---|---
Delivery receipt | https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/delivery-receipt
Inbound SMS | https://abcd1234.ngrok.io/webhooks/inbound-sms

Note you will need to replace "abcd1234" in the webhook URLs by your own information. If you have a paid Ngrok account that can be your custom domain.

> **NOTE:** You need to do this step as Messages and Dispatch applications currently only support outbound SMS, not inbound SMS. For this reason you will use the account-level SMS webhooks to support inbound SMS, but you will use the Messages API for sending outbound SMS.

## Write your basic application

In the simplest case your application would log out inbound message information, as well as delivery receipt and message status data. This would look like the following:

``` python
from flask import Flask, request, jsonify
from pprint import pprint

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/webhooks/inbound', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_message():
    print ("** inbound_message **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("inbound_message", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/status', methods=['POST'])
def message_status():
    print ("** message_status **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("message_status", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/inbound-sms', methods=['POST'])
def inbound_sms():
    print ("** inbound_sms **")
    values = request.values
    pprint(values)
    return ("inbound_sms", 200)

@app.route('/webhooks/delivery-receipt', methods=['POST'])
def delivery_receipt():
    print ("** delivery_receipt **")
    data = request.get_json()
    pprint(data)
    return ("delivery_receipt", 200)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host="localhost", port=9000)
```

Add this code to a file called `app1.py` and save it.

Run it locally with:

``` shell
python3 app1.py
```

## Send in an SMS

Your base application is now up and running and ready to log events. You can test this basic application by sending an SMS into any Vonage number linked to any Voice app, where the Vonage number has voice and SMS capabilities. If you don't have a voice application, and are not sure how to create one, you can review [this information](/application/code-snippets/create-application). The reason you need to go through this additional step is that Messages and Dispatch API does not currently support inbound SMS, only outbound SMS, so you have to use the account-level webhook to receive inbound SMS notifications.

When you examine the tracing information produced when you send in an SMS you see something similar to the following:

```
** inbound_sms **
{'keyword': 'MESSAGE',
 'message-timestamp': '2019-04-16 13:55:21',
 'messageId': '1700000240EAA6B6',
 'msisdn': '447700000001',
 'text': 'Message from Tony',
 'to': '447520635498',
 'type': 'text'}
```

## Generic client

Currently Vonage does not officially support Messages and Dispatch API in the Python Server SDK, but our REST API is supported (Beta) and the [Python code is provided](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/Client/Client.py) in the project for you in a reusable class. This class allows sending of a message using the Messages API to any of its supported channels. The code is worth taking a quick look at:

``` python
    def send_message (self, channel_type, sender, recipient, msg):
        if channel_type == 'messenger':
            from_field = "id"
            to_field = "id"
        elif channel_type == 'whatsapp' or channel_type == "sms": 
            from_field = "number"
            to_field = "number"
        elif channel_type == 'viber_service_msg':
            from_field = "id"
            to_field = "number"
               
        data_body = json.dumps({
            "from": {
	        "type": channel_type,
	        from_field: sender
            },
            "to": {
	        "type": channel_type,
	        to_field: recipient
            },
            "message": {
	        "content": {
	            "type": "text",
	            "text": msg
	        }
            }
        })
...
```

What happens is the body is built for you based on the channel type. This is because the details are slightly different between the channels - for example, Facebook uses IDs, whereas WhatsApp and SMS only used numbers. Viber uses an ID and a number. The code then goes on to use the Messages API to send the message for you. This is the basis of the use case, with a few extra bits to allow for user sign up.

## The use case revisited

It's time to look into this use case in more detail so you can more effectively build out your application.

For channels that support inbound messages (Messenger, WhatsApp and SMS) you can allow the user to send in a message to sign up. For Viber this will have to be done via another part of the web app. Typically you would provide a form where the user can sign up to the real-time feed.

If a user sends in an inbound message such as "Hi", the app will respond with a help message. In our simple case this is "Send us a message with MSFT or GOOGL in it for real-time data". This sign up will then be acknowledged by another message confirming which feed you have subscribed to.

After this you will then receive a real-time price on your selected stock symbol. If you want to additionally sign up on another channel you are free to do so. Also, if you want to change your stock symbol simply send in a message with the new symbol, it will be acknowledged, and the data stream will change accordingly.

The core code to implement this is located in the function `proc_inbound_msg` in `app_funcs.py`.

For WhatsApp you would have an additional step where you need to send an [MTM message](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template) to the user before the user can sign up to receive data. For simplicity this is provided as a [separate piece of code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/send_whatsapp_mtm.py).

## Testing the app

You can run the app with:

``` shell
python3 app.py APP_ID
```

Where `APP_ID` is the Vonage Application ID of your Messages application.

### SMS

To test with SMS simply send in an SMS as you did before. You will receive a help message. Send a message back with the stock symbol of either `MSFT` or `GOOGL`. You will then periodically receive a (simulated) price update. You currently have to exit the app to stop receiving these, but it would be a simple matter to add in the ability to switch these messages off, as was done in [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info).

### Facebook Messenger

To test with Facebook Messenger there are a few additional steps required. These have been discussed in detail in [this tutorial](/tutorials/fbm-product-info), so that information has not been replicated here.

### Viber

You would need a valid Viber business account to test this out. You would have part of your web app that would request the user [supplies their phone number and the symbol](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/app_funcs.py#L21-L29) they are interested in. The user could then be sent an initial message which they would have the ability to receive or decline. A [small test program](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/test-viber.py) is provided to demonstrate testing the generic client with Viber.

### WhatsApp

WhatsApp requires an additional step to test fully. You would need to send the user a WhatsApp MTM (template) before they can receive any messages. The code to do this has not been described in this tutorial but sample code is available [here](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed/blob/master/send_whatsapp_mtm.py). You can use then use the generic client provided in this tutorial to send subsequent WhatsApp messages.

## Summary

In this tutorial you have seen a use case where the user can receive real-time data on any channel supported by the Messages API.

## Further resources

* [The complete source code](https://github.com/nexmo-community/messages-api-real-time-feed).
* [Messages API documentation](/messages/overview)
* [Send a WhatsApp MTM](/messages/code-snippets/send-whatsapp-template)
