_tutorials/en/client-sdk/app-to-phone/place-call/kotlin.md, before:

---
title: Place a call
description: In this step you will place the call.
---

# Place a call

To start the call after pressing `make call` button fill the body of the `makeCall` method inside `Mainctivity` class:

```kotlin
@SuppressLint("MissingPermission")
fun makeCall() {
  // Callee number is ignored because it is specified in NCCO config
  client.call("IGNORED_NUMBER", NexmoCallHandler.SERVER, object : NexmoRequestListener<NexmoCall> {
      override fun onSuccess(call: NexmoCall?) {
          runOnUiThread { 
            endCallButton.visibility = View.VISIBLE
            makeCallButton.visibility = View.INVISIBLE
          }
      }

      override fun onError(apiError: NexmoApiError) {
      }
  })
}
```

## Webhooks

As you proceed with placing the call, please switch to the terminal and notice the `/voice/answer` endpoint being called to retrieve the NCCO:

``` bash
NCCO request:
  - callee: 447700900000
```

Also, as the call progresses through various stages, `/voice/event` is being sent events:

``` bash
...
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  from: null,
  to: 'Alice',
  uuid: '2da93da3-bcac-47ee-b48e-4a18fae7db08',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'started',
  direction: 'inbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:21.285Z'
}
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  headers: {},
  from: 'Alice',
  to: '447700900000',
  uuid: '8aa86e22-8d45-4201-b8d8-3dcd76e76429',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'started',
  direction: 'outbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:27.080Z'
}
---
...
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  start_time: null,
  headers: {},
  rate: null,
  from: 'Alice',
  to: '447700900000',
  uuid: '8aa86e22-8d45-4201-b8d8-3dcd76e76429',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'answered',
  direction: 'outbound',
  network: null,
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:31.604Z'
}
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  headers: {},
  end_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:36.000Z',
  uuid: '8aa86e22-8d45-4201-b8d8-3dcd76e76429',
  network: '23433',
  duration: '5',
  start_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:31.000Z',
  rate: '0.10000000',
  price: '0.00833333',
  from: 'Unknown',
  to: '447700900000',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'completed',
  direction: 'outbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:35.585Z'
}
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  headers: {},
  end_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:35.000Z',
  uuid: '2da93da3-bcac-47ee-b48e-4a18fae7db08',
  network: null,
  duration: '15',
  start_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:20.000Z',
  rate: '0.00',
  price: '0',
  from: null,
  to: 'Alice',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'completed',
  direction: 'inbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:36.187Z'
}
```

> **NOTE:** As the call is completed, events will also contain duration and pricing information.

The `end call` button was shown to reflect the current state of the call:

![End call](/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/app-to-phone/end-call.png)

Commit message:

Add run web server notice

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/app-to-phone/place-call/kotlin.md, after:

---
title: Place a call
description: In this step you will place the call.
---

# Place a call

To start the call after pressing `make call` button fill the body of the `makeCall` method inside `Mainctivity` class:

```kotlin
@SuppressLint("MissingPermission")
fun makeCall() {
  // Callee number is ignored because it is specified in NCCO config
  client.call("IGNORED_NUMBER", NexmoCallHandler.SERVER, object : NexmoRequestListener<NexmoCall> {
      override fun onSuccess(call: NexmoCall?) {
          runOnUiThread { 
            endCallButton.visibility = View.VISIBLE
            makeCallButton.visibility = View.INVISIBLE
          }
      }

      override fun onError(apiError: NexmoApiError) {
      }
  })
}
```

> **NOTE:** Please make sure that the webhook server you built in the previous steps is still running. 

## Webhooks

As you proceed with placing the call, please switch to the terminal and notice the `/voice/answer` endpoint being called to retrieve the NCCO:

``` bash
NCCO request:
  - callee: 447700900000
```

Also, as the call progresses through various stages, `/voice/event` is being sent events:

``` bash
...
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  from: null,
  to: 'Alice',
  uuid: '2da93da3-bcac-47ee-b48e-4a18fae7db08',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'started',
  direction: 'inbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:21.285Z'
}
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  headers: {},
  from: 'Alice',
  to: '447700900000',
  uuid: '8aa86e22-8d45-4201-b8d8-3dcd76e76429',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'started',
  direction: 'outbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:27.080Z'
}
---
...
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  start_time: null,
  headers: {},
  rate: null,
  from: 'Alice',
  to: '447700900000',
  uuid: '8aa86e22-8d45-4201-b8d8-3dcd76e76429',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'answered',
  direction: 'outbound',
  network: null,
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:31.604Z'
}
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  headers: {},
  end_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:36.000Z',
  uuid: '8aa86e22-8d45-4201-b8d8-3dcd76e76429',
  network: '23433',
  duration: '5',
  start_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:31.000Z',
  rate: '0.10000000',
  price: '0.00833333',
  from: 'Unknown',
  to: '447700900000',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'completed',
  direction: 'outbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:35.585Z'
}
---
VOICE EVENT:
{
  headers: {},
  end_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:35.000Z',
  uuid: '2da93da3-bcac-47ee-b48e-4a18fae7db08',
  network: null,
  duration: '15',
  start_time: '2021-03-10T10:36:20.000Z',
  rate: '0.00',
  price: '0',
  from: null,
  to: 'Alice',
  conversation_uuid: 'CON-1a28b1f8-0831-44e6-8d58-42739e7d4c77',
  status: 'completed',
  direction: 'inbound',
  timestamp: '2021-03-10T10:36:36.187Z'
}
```

> **NOTE:** As the call is completed, events will also contain duration and pricing information.

The `end call` button was shown to reflect the current state of the call:

![End call](/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/app-to-phone/end-call.png)
