_tutorials/en/client-sdk/app-to-app/create-application.md, before:

---
title: Create a Nexmo application
description: In this step you learn how to create a Nexmo application.
---

# Create your Nexmo application

You now need to create a Nexmo [Application](/conversation/concepts/application). In this step you create an application capable of handling voice use cases.

1) First create your project directory if you've not already done so.

2) Change into the project directory.

3) Create a Nexmo application [interactively](/application/nexmo-cli#interactive-mode). The following command enters interactive mode:

``` shell
nexmo app:create
```

4) Specify your application name. Press Enter to continue.

5) You can now select your application capabilities using the arrow keys and then pressing spacebar to select the capabilities your application needs. For the purposes of this example select Voice capabilities only, using the arrow keys and spacebar to select. Once you made your selection, press Enter to continue.

6) For "Use the default HTTP methods?" press Enter to select the default.

7) For " RTC Event URL" press 'Enter' to accept the default.

8)  For "Public Key path" press Enter to select the default. If you want to use your own public-private key pair refer to [this documentation](/application/nexmo-cli#creating-an-application-with-your-own-public-private-key-pair).

9)  For "Private Key path" type in `private.key` and press Enter.

The application is then created.

The file `.nexmo-app` is created in your project directory. This file contains the Nexmo Application ID and the private key. A private key file `private.key` is also created.

Creating an application and application capabilities are covered in detail in the [documentation](/application/overview).

**Make a note of the generated Application ID, as you'll need it in the future.**

## Nexmo dashboard

You can obtain information about your application, including Application ID, in the [Nexmo Dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/applications).

![Nexmo Developer Dashboard Applications screenshot](/screenshots/tutorials/nexmo-dashboard-applications.png "Nexmo Developer Dashboard Applications screenshot")

Commit message:

DEVX-3810 Incorporate Android app-to phone tutorial (#3105)
* Update copy gist screenshot location

* Create your Nexmo applicattion

* Remove Android reference from shared create nexmo client page

* Add create directory and enter directory commands into Create your Nexmo Application step

* Execute the following commands in the terminal to

* Be more explicit about JWTs generation

* Update title

* Add screenshots for genrrated JWTs

* Add better instructions on how to open starter project

* Unify create application

* Resolve conflict

* Remove unused page

* Remove nexmo-dashboard-applications.png, unify create-application

* Unify starter project desc

* Add Kotlin-starter project image

* Added click Open

* Add info about AS parsing the project

* Update description

* Add info on how to find classes in the Android project

* Singular form for single user

* Reinforce message about adding missing imports

* Update date

* Add shourtcut for on how to run the app and make it as separate, shared step

* Fix repo URL

* Update spelling

* Clean up

* Update submodules to match current master

* Update copy

* Fix typos

Co-authored-by: Lorna Jane Mitchell <lorna@lornajane.net>

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/app-to-app/create-application.md, after:

---
title: Create a Nexmo application
description: In this step you learn how to create a Nexmo application.
---

# Create your Nexmo application

You now need to create a Nexmo [Application](/conversation/concepts/application). In this step you create an application capable of handling voice use cases.

**1.** Create your project directory if you've not already done so.

``` shell
mkdir nexmo-tutorial
```

**2.** Change into the project directory.

``` shell
cd nexmo-tutorial
```

**3.** Create a Nexmo application [interactively](/application/nexmo-cli#interactive-mode). The following command enters interactive mode:

``` shell
nexmo app:create
```

**4.** Specify your application name. Press Enter to continue.

**5.** You can now select your application capabilities using the arrow keys and then pressing spacebar to select the capabilities your application needs. For the purposes of this example select Voice capabilities only, using the arrow keys and spacebar to select. Once you made your selection, press Enter to continue.

**6.** For "Use the default HTTP methods?" press Enter to select the default.

**7.** For " RTC Event URL" press 'Enter' to accept the default.

**8.**  For "Public Key path" press Enter to select the default. If you want to use your own public-private key pair refer to [this documentation](/application/nexmo-cli#creating-an-application-with-your-own-public-private-key-pair).

**9.**  For "Private Key path" type in `private.key` and press Enter.

A file named `.nexmo-app` is created in your project directory and contains the newly created Nexmo Application ID and the private key. A private key file named `private.key` is also created.

**Please make a note of it as you'll need it in the future.**

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/nexmo-application-created.png
```

> **NOTE:** For more details on how to create an application and various available application capabilities please see our [documentation](/application/overview).

> **NOTE:** You can also obtain information about your application, including the Application ID, in the [Nexmo Dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/voice/your-applications).
