_tutorials/en/client-sdk/android-shared/generate-jwt-alice-and-bob/kotlin.md, before:

---
title: Generate JWTs
description: In this step you learn how to generate valid JWTs for each User in your Conversation
---

# Generate JWTs

You need to generate a JWT for each user. The JWT is used to authenticate the user.

In the following code remember to replace the `APPLICATION_ID` variable with id of your application:

``` shell
nexmo jwt:generate sub=Alice exp=$(($(date +%s)+86400)) acl='{"paths":{"/*/users/**":{},"/*/conversations/**":{},"/*/sessions/**":{},"/*/devices/**":{},"/*/image/**":{},"/*/media/**":{},"/*/applications/**":{},"/*/push/**":{},"/*/knocking/**":{}}}' application_id=APPLICATION_ID

nexmo jwt:generate sub=Bob exp=$(($(date +%s)+86400)) acl='{"paths":{"/*/users/**":{},"/*/conversations/**":{},"/*/sessions/**":{},"/*/devices/**":{},"/*/image/**":{},"/*/media/**":{},"/*/applications/**":{},"/*/push/**":{},"/*/knocking/**":{}}}' application_id=APPLICATION_ID
```

The above commands set the expiry of the JWT to one day from now, which is the maximum.

Make a note of the JWT you generated for each user.

> **NOTE**: In a production environment, your application should expose an endpoint that generates a JWT for each client request.

## Further information

* [JWT guide](/concepts/guides/authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt)

Commit message:

DEVX-3810 Incorporate Android app-to phone tutorial (#3105)
* Update copy gist screenshot location

* Create your Nexmo applicattion

* Remove Android reference from shared create nexmo client page

* Add create directory and enter directory commands into Create your Nexmo Application step

* Execute the following commands in the terminal to

* Be more explicit about JWTs generation

* Update title

* Add screenshots for genrrated JWTs

* Add better instructions on how to open starter project

* Unify create application

* Resolve conflict

* Remove unused page

* Remove nexmo-dashboard-applications.png, unify create-application

* Unify starter project desc

* Add Kotlin-starter project image

* Added click Open

* Add info about AS parsing the project

* Update description

* Add info on how to find classes in the Android project

* Singular form for single user

* Reinforce message about adding missing imports

* Update date

* Add shourtcut for on how to run the app and make it as separate, shared step

* Fix repo URL

* Update spelling

* Clean up

* Update submodules to match current master

* Update copy

* Fix typos

Co-authored-by: Lorna Jane Mitchell <lorna@lornajane.net>

_tutorials/en/client-sdk/android-shared/generate-jwt-alice-and-bob/kotlin.md, after:

---
title: Generate JWTs
description: In this step you learn how to generate valid JWTs for each User in your Conversation
---

# Generate JWTs

The JWT is used to authenticate the user. Execute the following commands in the terminal to generate a JWT for the users `Alice` and `Bob`.

In the following command replace the `APPLICATION_ID` with id of your application:

``` shell
nexmo jwt:generate sub=Alice exp=$(($(date +%s)+86400)) acl='{"paths":{"/*/users/**":{},"/*/conversations/**":{},"/*/sessions/**":{},"/*/devices/**":{},"/*/image/**":{},"/*/media/**":{},"/*/applications/**":{},"/*/push/**":{},"/*/knocking/**":{}}}' application_id=APPLICATION_ID

nexmo jwt:generate sub=Bob exp=$(($(date +%s)+86400)) acl='{"paths":{"/*/users/**":{},"/*/conversations/**":{},"/*/sessions/**":{},"/*/devices/**":{},"/*/image/**":{},"/*/media/**":{},"/*/applications/**":{},"/*/push/**":{},"/*/knocking/**":{}}}' application_id=APPLICATION_ID
```

The above commands set the expiry of the JWT to one day from now, which is the maximum.

Make a note of the JWT you generated for each user.

```screenshot
image: public/screenshots/tutorials/client-sdk/generated-jwt-key.png
```

> **NOTE**: In a production environment, your application should expose an endpoint that generates a JWT for each client request.

## Further information

* [JWT guide](/concepts/guides/authentication#json-web-tokens-jwt)
